   , is described  as being  on the men of their  society.  Women, like Ellen, are icons in the society.  They are nothing more than show pieces to the men who 'care' for them.  is primarily a novel constructed around  the development of the individual natural character of a woman once she is  free from the constraints of her society.  By the end of the novel Ellen has become in touch with her primitive  sexual nature but then must, again, enter back into her role that had  originally been set out for her.    was their first lesson  in cities  .  It is also their first lesson in Western European society.  " A Wedding in Spring" deals primarily with the attempt to become "  Western" and to fit into the ways and lifestyles of the British.  Attempting to integrate into this Western society is fully established  with the actual wedding.  However, trying to make this transition becomes awkward.  It proves difficult, if not impossible, to hold a traditional 'white'  wedding for the people of Caribbean  background that also  try to hold on to some of their past culture without disrupting their newly  found lifestyle.    has an  interesting role.  unclear word   a paternalistic image, as well as one of leadership.  He is the white 'ruler' of this small island of aboriginal people who  have been severely  oppressed by the onset of colonization in  Australia.  However, he is not of superior intellectual power to these people,  particularly to   Jangamuttak  .  These two characters are superior to Fada as they are in control of  their dreaming.  They are capable of making the transition between reality and  dreaming.  Fada is inferior because he does not understand the powers of  dreaming, nor does he understand its significant presence in the spiritual  world of the aboriginal people.    both appease Fada and make him believe that he is  superior to them while all along  they are working towards  removing his presence from the island which they do eventually accomplish.     Of Customs and Excise   .  However, she has returned to India after being in England for most of  her life and  does not understand the Hindu  culture as much as she thinks she does.  She, at first, believes Dr. Naigar to be a harsh woman that is quite  primitive in many of her medical practices.  Later, Dr. Bridget learns that it is not all important to know just  medicine but it is equally important to be in touch with the culture of the  people you are helping.  When Parvati comes into the clinic with her mother-in-law to find out  how far along she is in her pregnancy, Dr. Bridget learns quickly that she  must lie, because Parvati's pregnancy is further along than her   marraige  , in order to save this young woman's  life.  Hinduism is a harsh culture in which the women are completely  subservient to their husbands.  Sex is a sin that would be paid for by death if it is discovered to  have taken place outside of  .     Lawson's image of women in his version of " The Drover's Wife" is  very much exemplified by this quote.  The Drover's Wife survives in this  version.  She is seen as the idealistic woman who is considered somewhat of a  heroine because she goes outside of the female role in order to save her  family.  However, Lawson also maintains her sense of being the weaker sex as  well.  by his mother.  He is socialized enough to be aware of the separation between men's  and woman's roles.  He no longer considers his Mom as his hero, but rather, now,  considers her as his equal.  The younger child still depends on his Mom to be the 'hero', he has  yet to learn these gender roles in society.    This poem, and these lines, tell the tale of a lost culture that  now belongs in a museum.  The imposition of colonialism has covered over this culture.  Now, it stands, isolated, in a museum to be mocked at.  The colonial attitude of being superior to the culture which they  were attempting to destroy was their saving grace.  This feeling of superiority had to be maintained in order to feel  morally right in 'civilizing' the savages.  The cultures of the aboriginal people must learn how to survive time  by, perhaps, learning the trick of quietly being   preserved  , then quietly unfolding and being culturally reactivated  when the time is right.    the   are depicted as  profoundly different than the men which surround them.  In both works the women are forced to move away  from what they realize as the woman's place in society and to look back and  either change themselves to become enlightened unto the fact that they are  individuals apart from their men or to realize their roles in life are as  important as the men's and to maintain the restraints of the social structure  is their priority.  Ellen's journey, specifically, is one that consist primarily of  discovering her primitive sexual nature.  is able to discover  her blatantly sexual side.   are aware that they must uphold their traditional roles in society.  Parvati, in particular, is an interesting character because in her  youth she had gone against her rigid social structure and had sexual  relations outside of her  .  She suffers immensely for this act because she becomes pregnant as a  result of this affair and, therefore, pays the price the rest of her life.  Her husband is unkind to her and to her daughter Maya.  Parvati gives up her own freedom in order to give her daughter a  chance that she, herself, never had.    Generally, the women are seen as much different than the men in  these two works because they are identified in regards to the men which  surround them.  They live in a purely paternalistic world which, in itself, offers no  freedom to these women.  The men, in contrast, are able to characterize themselves.  In other words they stand alone in their social context.   in his society.  He is an individual man, a scholar, a man of high regard.  seen as his wife, is also  seen of high social stature because Austin is successful and  not  because she is  Ellen is Austin's wife.  She is his property and is described through his characteristics and  not through her own.  Parvati is much in the same position.  Her husband is a successful man, therefore, she is seen as  successful.  These women do not have an individual description.  social  restraints for a while due to some extraordinary circumstances, in which she  is captured by an aboriginal group after a shipwreck and is eventually lead  back to civilization by a convict named Jack Chance.  It is ironic, that she is capable of finding an individual identity  in a savage land amongst savage men.  some  respects, it did not allow her the chance to completely know herself.  tends  to be more of a sexual journey than anything else, it does take a man, Jack  Chance, for her to become in touch with her sexual side.  She is once again, identified in relationship to a man.  However, the important thing IS that he is outside of her social  realm and  would be considered by her world as a  savage.  He is more civilized to her than her very civilized husband Austin.  It is interesting that Austin had always treated her as an object  while Jack is capable of loving her as a woman, regardless of society.  unclear  word  the relationship between Jack Chance and Ellen.    Maya, is also given freedom to a certain extent.  Her mother Parvati gives her an exit to the oppressive paternalistic  Hindu society.  Parvati shoves money under Maya's door one evening giving her a way  to move away from the home and to go to school.  The modern Canadian society which Maya finds herself in, is much more  accepting than the traditional Hindu household that she had grown up in.  Like the other women, Maya had been described in terms of her Father  and not in terms of herself.    caught between two worlds, between the paternalistic oppressive Hindu  world and the western Canadian world.  Her friends are Canadians who offer her a picture of the life she  could have if she could escape her Father.  Parvati loves her daughter so much and believes her daughter should  have the chance to be defined on her own, and in her own terms.  Maya takes this opportunity and for a while completely disregards her  culture.  However, she realizes how much her mother has been through and, in  the end, goes back  to comfort her, and to hold her   even though she couldn't earlier, when she was still in  Parvati's womb.    These women, although with very different circumstances, are all  restrained because they live in a very paternalistic society.  are particularly  related to their ability to have male children.  Their value is based completely on this ability.  defined in regards to her  husband's position in society.  Women basically are of no value on their own.  Although they learn to outgrow their roles or to sink into them, they  never are able, to  find an identity to  themselves without the interference of men.  Perhaps the most positive image is of Maya, who, after much personal  suffering, is able to bridge the waters between her traditional  hindu   culture, in order to help her Mother, and her new  found Western existence.     This poem provides the image of a Western woman in the midst of a  newly colonized country.  , a proper European piece of wardrobe is  seemingly protecting her from the harsh new world sun which she is not yet  used or does not wish to become used    to.  The storm which approaches may be representative of the ideal of  colonialism, as an oppressive force, just as the storm itself is able to  possess the land without much warning, so does colonialism possess the land.    of the land.  It conflicts with her because it is uncivilized like her.  She is attempting to overcome its hostility.  white  roots  are at her feet, symbolizing the land that she has left  behind.  overhanging  tussock" cuts her hands  , symbolizes the violence of the new land  which she has entered.  Her body image is important, she is being pulled and  stretched between two lands.  The last line is significant in that she holds onto her past Western  views in this untamed land.  She is attempting a most cultured task, painting, in the mostly  unlikely place.   unclear word  untouched landscape, yet, in another sense in  it obviously very important to her  or else she wouldn't go  through such a lot of work to make it possible.  She is, therefore, unwilling to give up her civilized lifestyle in  order to fit into this uncivilized world.  The image of this woman greatly contrasts that  of her immediate surroundings.  of the  land in the poem, and not as the violated.       The decay of the veteran should mark the decay of loyalty to the  British Empire so that the West Indies can build their own nationalist  feeling and identity.  