   The author is Lady Mary Wroth.  .   Carpe diem  or seize the day.     Samuel Taylor Coleridge  Locke.  The  Marriage of Heaven and Hell  .  This tries to reverse  the Christian values of good and evil.    The author is Milton.  Lycidas.  which is a reflection on his friends death.  Milton is questioning the working of God as insensitive and uncaring.  Like the confused army which ends up killing each  other Milton wonders why God has killed his companion.    The Preface to Lyrical  Ballads  .  Wordsworth explains that poetry is not spontaneous creation but the  result of a quiet reflection on a past experience remembered in a  moment     .  These lines are said by Ariel who is explaining that all the people  on the island are changing who they are, or they are discovering who they  truly are.   self they really are,    .  The narrator is trying to convince a woman to have sex with him and  he compares their love making to a bite of a Flea.  Donne uses a metaphysical conceit to compare a Flea, to lovemaking,  the  and marriage.  In this way he tries to make her loss of virginity as nothing more  trivial than a flea bite.    The Author is Alexander Pope.  .  ,   of  which to cut it.  Clarissa is a character which some women side with who do not want to  side with Belinda  .  In this way it pits women against women and forces them to laugh at  their sex.     The Wasteland  .  This is a reflection on how it seems one must travel through the  toughest and worst to get at the best.  You must put up with petty annoyances of day to day living before you  are rewarded.  As with Maxine her husband Old River was the person she hated most  because he beat her and was mean but she had to move through that because she  remembered who he was and loved him best.    The Goblin Market   .  This illustrates the dependence of women on other women.  We should always depend on our sisters because they will be the one  thing that sticks by us in times of thick or thin,  calm or stormy  weather    .  were all like the  savages in the heart of Africa but we have evolved through our culture to  become civilized.  It is our culture which gives us language and knowledge therefore the  people in Africa are seen as mindless  primitives.      unlike objects.  Unlike a Petrarchan conceit which compares two similar objects on a  basis of physicality and similitude a metaphysical conceit compares two  things in an intellectual way.  It compares two dissimilar objects or ideas  John Donne uses a metaphysical conceit in his sonnet " The Flea".  In this sonnet Donne compares the flea to love-making, the church,  and marriage.  The flea bites both the lover and his conquest and he compares this  to  a marriage because the two of them ( their blood) have  become one ( in the flea).  He also compares her killing the flea to love making.  It is no greater sin that she lose her virginity than her killing the  flea which Donne also represents as the Church . (  its  body).  This type of conceit is used to draw an intellectual comparison  between two things.  By comparing their love-making or marriage to a flea-bite Donne is  able to make the important seem trivial.  It is a way of convincing someone of something by making it seem like  they are not really giving up anything at all.  By comparing two dissimilar things is also slightly confusing so as  to  to something before actually  knowing what it is.    Over the many centuries of literature, many different attitudes  towards women and by women have been expressed.  Women have travelled from a time of illiteracy and no representation  to an era in which  they are able to assert themselves  freely.  Wife of  Bath  A  Room of One's Own  .  Through changes in era, authorship and content, are we able to see  how the attitudes about women have changed.  a male dominated  patriarchal society to one in which women are able to express their views and  beliefs as freely as men.    Wife  of Bath  , women were an illiterate and unrepresented part of society.  The women were inferior to the men and were portrayed as such in  literature.  , the wife of Bath espouses  all the stereotypes held of women.  Having five husbands she is seen as the cause of man's downfall.  The wife of Bath is fully aware of these stereotypes because her  fifth husband told her of  manipulation and unworthiness yet  she uses these stereotypes against men in order to lead a life of  independence and promiscuity.  should not be regarded as a  correct account of women during  the middle ages because it  is written by a man and expresses a man's point of  view   .  were an illiterate and unrepresented  part of society and therefore unable to write of their plight themselves.     However, this changed in the Romantic period.   we should all lay flowers on the grave of Aphra Behn  because it was  she who first gave women a voice.  , by Aphra Behn is one of the first novels  written by a woman.  Novel writing was one of the first occupations that opened up for  women as acceptable in society, along with motherhood and homemaking  (  during the Romantic Period)  .  Women were slowly gaining literacy as well as representation with  women like Aphra Behn.  Aphra Behn's story of Oroonoko - an African prince who becomes  alienated by a domination of men and his strive for freedom although it means  his certain death is especially understood by women because for many years  they suffered much of the same alienation and subordination to the male  patriarchy and domination of the eras.  Behn portrays that women too, like Oroonoko must strive for their  freedom no matter what the cost.  some of these  attitudes of male control were changing  and women, by writing  novels, were able to earn a living for themselves.      written in the nineteenth  century.  Women were finally gaining an education as well as representation but  they were still under the forces of patriarchal control.  the narrator expresses an inability  to enter a library on a college campus without  a letter of  recommendation  walk on the  grass  unless accompanied by a male.  Men, even in this century are trying to control the actions of women.   room of one's own  and to earn an independent income so that they can  write effectively and efficiently as this way they will not be subject to the  interruptions arriving  in their home from husbands and children.  Woolf also petitions that women break the male model of writing to  create a  in this way she seems to be asking  to break the male patriarchal control to create a female space in society, a   .  We must be able to live independently and of our own means in order  to break the patriarchal control which has been instilled in society for many  centuries.  that beautiful  world of their own   put  place of one's own   where women put themselves as an equal part of society, not  inferiors.  can be seen as one of  the first feminist critiques of a still mainly male dominated society; Women  must not be that manx cat looked on as an oddity, but as a normal and      Although many attitudes have changed many still stay the same.  an underrepresented part of our  society and culture.  Many stereotypes of women still exist of women's inferiority to men  and this in turn helps to perpetuate the male patriarchal control over  society and women.  are   is independent and use the stereotypes against men.  Secondly, we must be like Aphra Behn's  Oroonoko, who realizes his subordination and alienation and who strives for  freedom no matter what the cost.  Woolf says and  find a  we must discover what our place in  society is and will be in the future.  The attitudes about women and by women have travelled and changed  throughout history and literature and this change is an integral part for  women to gain an equal status and representation.    The form of this poem is a sonnet.  It is a petrarchan sonnet because it consists in form of two  quatrains making up an octave and two  tercets making up  a sestet.  Its movement moves from a deliberation of  the world in a sad way  in the quatrains to a turning  of mood to one of anger in the tercets.    too much with us   .  The nature of this problem is that mankind has subdued nature to use  it for his own will.  Little we  see in nature that is ours   Man; instead of using their powers to help nature, instead get and  spend it and    and the things nature provides is our    lifeblood yet we destroy it.  The solution the poet offers is that Nature uprise and destroy man.  To again take control of what was its to begin with.  Proteus and Triton are both Gods of the sea.    This poem is unlike the poems of the renaissance in that it does  not compare love to anything.  It does not have a tormented lover and a love object but it has a  tormented man and his thoughts of nature which is seen as a feminine thing.  As in the renaissance poetry when descriptions are given of the love  objects so is nature described eg. lines 5 and 6.  Similarly the man is also forced to compete for the love object so  the narrator of this poem competes with science and technology for   natore    The poem would belong to the Romantic period which ran from 1789  to 1832.  this poem  are characteristic of the time period because during the Romantic period was  the rise of Industrialization, science and technology.  rest  of paragraph  