   By January of 1945 the government of the United States arrived at  the decision to conduct international trials, re  ferring to the war  crimes and that were committed by the Ger  mans during the second world  war.  The three other Allied powers, Great Britain, the Soviet Union, and  France accepted the decision by the Americans.  These trials came to be known as the Nuremberg Trials, which opened on  November 20, 1945.  presentative from each of the Allied countries signed an  Agree  ment of seven articles which made up the International Military  Tribunal.   The trial was conducted in four languages simultaneously, and every  seat in the court had a pair of headphones at  tached to it in which the  trial could be heard in English, Russian, French or German.   The defendants who were brought to court were those whose crimes fell  within three categories: crimes against peace; war crimes; and crimes against  humanity.   ducted 403 open  sessions, throughout the trial 113 witnesses were called, and one hundred  thousand documents were accepted by the court.   At Nuremberg, seven organizations were declared criminal: the  Leadership Corps of the Nazi Party; the SS, an elite corps under Himmler; the  SD, a Security Service; the SA, a paramilitary organization; the Gestapo, the  secret state police; the Reich Cabinet, and the General Staff and High Com    oused many different feelings, but it  was felt that the German people and organizations responsible for  enslavement, genocide, initiating war, and other atrocities should be brought  to justice.    taneous  events, some were planned at the highest level and carefully thought out in  advance.  Article 6 ( b) of the Charter defines war crimes in these words:    " War Crimes: namely, violations of the laws or customs of war.  Such violations shall include, but not be limited to, murder,  ill-treatment or deportation to slave labor or for any other purpose of  civilian population of or in occupied territory, murder or ill-treatment of  prisoners of war or persons on the seas, killing of hostages, plunder of  public or private property, wan  ton destruction of cities, towns, or  villages, or deva      During the Second World War the treatment towards the prisoners  of war by the Germans was harsh and cruel.  Allied soldiers who had surrendered to the Germans were shot immedi   ately, commando troops were also killed on the spot, and those who were  executed in concentration camps at a later date were obviously never given a  trial of any sort.   wards Soviet prisoners of war was particularly  inhumane.  They were left without proper clothing; the wounded were given no  medical care; they were starved, and many were simply left to die.  8    Soviet prisoners in some cases were branded with a special permanent  mark, and were also used for medical experiments.    The use of concentration camps was widespread during the war.  The concentration camps were places where people were subject to  brutality.  For those who did not die during the trip to the camps were given  hard physical labor, inade  quate food, clothes, and shelter.  Some concentration camps were equipped with gas chambers, for the  purpose of destroying the inmates and furnaces for burning the dead bodies.  Some of the these were used for the extermination of Jews as a part  of the " final solution" to the Jewish problem.   There were plans to get rid of whole native populations in Poland and  the Soviet Union, and Hitler wrote in " Mein Kampf":  " It is not our  task to Germanize the east in the old sense, that is to teach the people  there the German language and the German law, but to see to it that only  people of purely Germanic blood live in the east."  11     Private property in many occupied countries was invaded upon in  which private collections and libraries were robbed, and private houses were  seized.   Another crime included the slave-labor programme, where at least five  million men and women were taken from their homes and sent to work in German  factories or on farms.   The camps in which they were placed were unsanitary, the food was  scarce, and even a portion of their pay was taken.    The liquidation of the Jews from German life was a policy that  had been established by the Germans by 1938.  The Jews were originally forced to live in ghettoes, to wear a yellow  star on the breast and back, and were used as slave laborers.  But the plans for the " final solution" of the Jewish question meant  the extermination of all Jews.   As a part of the " final solution" all Jews from German occupied  Europe were placed in concentra  tion camps.  orers, and those  who were not fit to work were killed in gas chambers and then their bodies  were burnt.  The Jews as well as the Soviets were used in medical experiments such  as deter  mining how long human beings could survive in freezing water.    It has been estimated that this policy resulted in the killing of six  million Jews.    Crimes against Humanity often overlapped War Crimes, and Article  6 of the Charter states:  " Crimes against humanity: namely,  murder, extermination, enslavement, deportation, and other inhumane acts com   ing the war; or  persecutions on political, racial or religious grounds in execution of or in  connection with any crime within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, whether or  not in violation of the domestic law of the country where perpetrated."      The persecution of the Jews, and murdering civilians who were  thought to hold opposing views against the German govern  ment, were  crimes carried out on a vast scale and were consid  ered crimes against  humanity.  Crimes against humanity were committed as a result of racial or  religious persecutions.    The Chief Prosecutors of the Nuremberg Trials decided on  twenty-four individuals who were thought to be the most guilty of the  surviving leaders.   But only twenty-two of these men were actually tried because one  committed suicide in prison and one was too ill to stand his trial.  Each of the defendants was represented by one or more German counsel.  And when it was time to deal with the evidence against the  defendants, it was to be remembered that no man could be punished for an act  unless both the act and its penalty had been defined in writing before the  date of the act.   dividuals were involved  with, I will talk about four men, name  ly Goering, Hess, Von Ribbentrop  and Keitel.    Goering, after Hitler, was the most potent man in the Nazi  regime.  He was the advisor, the active agent of Hitler, and one of the main  leaders of the Nazi movement.  Not only did he establish the Gestapo, he created the first concentra    gressive war, and  was deeply involved in the planning and man  euvering the military in  preparation for war.  Goering admitted to the accusations stated against him above,  including leading the slave-labor program and persecuting the Jews.  With all of the evidence piled against him he was found guilty on all  four counts of the indictment, and was sentenced to death by hang  ing.     position as Deputy to the Fuehrer included being  the top man in the Nazi Party with the responsibility for hand  ling all  party matters.   rations for war, and he  blamed England and France for the war.  Hess was a willing participant in German aggression against Austria,  Czechoslovakia, and Poland.  When the trials were underway there was some discrepancy about  whether he was men  tally stable enough to stand trial and defend himself,  and due to this factor he was represented by counsel, and was found guilty on  counts one and two, and was sentenced to life in prison.    In 1932 Von Ribbentrop joined the Nazi Party, and by 1933 he was  Foreign Policy Adviser to Hitler.   Von Ribbentrop was involved in areas such as participating in the  plans to attack Czechoslovakia, he played an important role in the act   ivities which led up to the attack on Poland, and he urged Japan to invade  the Soviet Union.   He is responsible for war crimes against humanity due to his  involvement in the extermination of Jews.  The Tribunal found Von Ribbentrop guilty on all four counts and was  sentenced to death.    On the day that Hitler took control of the armed forces he made  Keitel Chief of the High Command of the Armed Forces.  His war crimes included activities such as ordering that for every  German soldier that was killed, fifty to a hundred Com  munists should be  put to death.   pected of any violations against  German troops should be shot without trial, and that no trials were necessary  for the German violations against the civilians.   Keitel admitted to these acts and was found guilty on all four  counts, and like Von Ribbentrop and Goering, was sentenced to death.    Not only were certain individuals brought to trial, but  organizations who had committed crimes were brought forward as well.  tion which  was declared to be criminal was liable to be con  victed of the crime of  membership and be punished.   But, all members of an organization who left there positions before  September first, 1939 were not liable to be charged with any criminal acts.    It was suspected that more than half a million people were involved  in the Leadership Corps of the Nazi Party alone, each of who played a key  part in the Nazi party.   The seven organizations that were declared criminal were: The Lead   ership Corps of the Nazi Party; the Gestapo; the S.D.; the S.S.; the  S.A.; the Reich Cabinet, and the General Staff and High Command of the German  Armed Forces.    The Leadership Corps of the Nazi Party was headed by Hitler as  Fuehrer, but the Party was actually run by Hess, the Chief of the Party  Chancellery.   Its primary purpose was to help the Nazis obtain and keep control of  the German state.   It was also used for criminal acts such as the persecution of the  Jews, the management of the slave labor program, and the mistreatment of the  prisoners of war.    cause  they worked so closely together.   The S.D was used as an intelligence agency, and the Gestapo was made  up of various police forces which were under the leadership of Himmler and  Goering.   ganizations,  but one was unable to pick their choice of assign  ments or positions.    secution and  extermination of Jews, killings in concentration camps and prisoners of war,  and involvement in the slave labor program.    The S.S. was originally established by Hitler in 1925, and by the  time the Nazis had gained power it was used to maintain order and control  audiences at demonstrations.   By 1939, the S.S. had grown to membership of 240 000 men, and  possessed a legal office and its own legal systems.   ganization was prosecuted for the extermination of the  Jews, mistreatment of the civilian population, managing concentra  tion  camps, their involvement in the slave labor program and the ill-treatment of  prisoners of war.    The S.A was founded in 1921 for political purposes, and until  1939 its membership was completely voluntary.    volved in the Nazi outrages during that time.   But it was not proved that this organization was part of the plan to  engage in aggressive war, and the Tribunal was unable to charge them with any  criminal acts under the Charter.    The Tribunal did not declare the Reich Cabinet with criminal  charges for two reasons: 1) it was not proved that af  ter 1937 it acted  as an organization; 2) there were too few peo  ple that were liable to be  charged.   ber of individuals were involved in the  strategy of aggressive war, but it could not be proven that they worked in a  group.   The General Staff and the High Command was dealt with in the same  manner as the Reich cabinet.  The number of persons charged here was greater, but still so small  that it would be more effective to give each one of them a separate trial.   