   On July 1st 1990, Canada day, several Canadian rock bands gathered  outside of Barrie Ontario to perform a Canada Day " Celebration".  The final act of the day was the Box, a band from Qu&eacute;bec.  They tried to make the point that despite the recent failure of the  Meech Lake Accord, we Canadians have to plough onwards.  The boohs and hisses which erupted were embarrassing.  Had the failure of the Meech Lake Accord, a proposed constitutional  amendment which would symbolically bring Qu&eacute;bec into the Constitution  and increase the powers of the provinces, left the country with wounds that  would not heal?    This paper will argue that considering the factors which led to  the failure of the Meech Lake Accord and the attitudes which have developed  since that failure no accommodations are possible to salvage the existing  Canadian Confederation.  The factors which led to the failure of Meech left the opposing and  appreciative factions too resolute in their stances to reach accommodation.  Also important in analyzing the elements which lead to the failure of  Meech was that Meech was a  amendment and therefore  debate about it was tainted by ideological symbolism.  The wounds incurred to Canadian pan-nationalism by Meech were not new  ones; rather they were old wounds reopened.  The feelings which were cultivated in both Qu&eacute;bec and English  Canada during the separatist movement and the language policy debates of the  1960s and 1970s, by the ' 82 Constitution Act, reached a boiling point with  the June 23rd failure of Meech.  These extreme feelings will not be swept under the carpet by either  side in the conflict.  So intense was this boiling point that both pro and anti Meech  exponents will remain adamant in their demands; stalemate.    The factors which led to the failure of Meech ranged from the  traditional English-French relations debate to dislike for the actual  provisions of the accord.    In any negotiations for concessions it becomes extremely  difficult to achieve agreement when one group enters the negotiations with  inflexible demands.  Such was the case with Qu&eacute;bec's position regarding their  symbolic entrance into the Constitution.  Qu&eacute;bec made it clear in 1986 what their requirements were for  them to become a member of the Constitution.  Gil R&eacute;millard, then Qu&eacute;bec Minister of Intergovernment  Affairs, laid down their demands as follows: ( 1) explicit recognition of  Qu&eacute;bec as a distinct society; ( 2) the recognition of a right to  constitutional veto; ( 3) a limitation on the federal spending power; ( 4)  Qu&eacute;bec's participation in appointing judges to the Supreme Court; and  ( 5) a guarantee of increased powers in matters of immigration.  1    Qu&eacute;bec felt as if they ( it) were ( was) wronged in 1982 and  they now had their demands to make up for that wrong and they were not going  to relinquish them.  did  somewhat have Qu&eacute;bec lean into the blow in ' 82.  During the separatist campaign of 1980 the federal government told  the people of Qu&eacute;bec that if they said no to separation then the  federal government would negotiate a constitution.  When such a constitution was prepared it was incompatible to the  needs of Qu&eacute;bec.   government  was very adamant in the provision that they felt were  necessary to forget the sucker punch of ' 82.    Many Canadians felt that the proposals within Meech Lake were too  decentralizing and that the amendment would destroy a pan-Canada which ranged  from sea to sea.  " pan-Canadianism, support for the  Charter, belief in a leading role for the central government, and a deep  uneasiness at the provincializing thrust of the Accord were generously  represented, indeed probably dominant, among the groups and individuals that  appeared before the Joint Committee and in other fora outside of  Qu&eacute;bec,"   To achieve the largely symbolic effect of drawing Qu&eacute;bec into  the Canadian Constitutional family the Accord would reshape federalism to  what many believed to perverse levels.  Many Canadians felt that the catch was not worth the high cost of the  bait.    The Accord was also objectionable on the grounds of how it was  created.  The future of Canadian federalism and the framework of a nation were  shaped by eleven men behind closed doors.  origin had two  negative effects for the Accord.  The first, as discussed, was a resentment of the decentralizing  proposals for the Country.  The Premiers had a conflict of interest in that they were men elected  to get results within their provinces, yet they were negotiating the  distribution of power between the provinces and the central government.  How could they do anything but want more power with which to take  results to their voters?  "  appeared to be a document drawn up by provincial governments for provincial  governments, the result of a constitutional contest in which the federal  government was a referee but not a player aggressively pursing its own  interest and vision"   Increased power for the provinces, decentralization, was a natural  consequence of ten provincial players and one federal player negotiating  constitutional reform.  The second unpopular effect that the origin of Meech produced was the  resentment that certain interest groups felt at not being included in the  negotiations.  Donna Grescher maintained that the political battles of the previous  round of the Constitutional reform were  " still too fresh in the  memories of national women's organizations for them not to be suspicious of a  deal struck in private by eleven men"   Constitutional reform only rears its head every so often and thus  interest groups are going to push as hard as possible to have their interest  represented at any time reform is proposed.  Furthermore it is important to consider that, as Richard Simeon,  wrote  " the stakes of constitutional politics are high, and high  stakes politics are likely to be ideological politics"  5    Not only did the Accord offend those who were neglected recognition  but it also threatened the existing recognition of constitutional groups.  Cairns considered Meech to be a rebuff for aboriginals, women's  groups, and members of the non-Charter communities.   " If you  upgrade the rights of the French and do not do the same to the rights of  everyone else, by definition, you have just lowered else's"   7   Opposition from the aboriginal corner on this point would reach fatal  levels for the Meech Lake Accord.    Not only did some Canadians deplore the decentralizing aspects of  Meech's proposed changes to the amending formula, but it was also feared that  strengthening the amending formula would weaken the rights of citizens.  element of the  constitution while the amending formula maintains the supremacy of the  Parliament.  the  tension between bringing the citizenry into the constitutional order via the  Charter and firmly placing the same citizenry on the sidelines when  constitutional amendments are undertaken might lie dormant if formal  constitutional change was only a rare event, ...  However, Meech promises the reverse with its requirement of annual  constitutional conference and the concomitant assumption that constitutional  fine tuning is an ever-present requirement ( Cairns 174)  .  Regardless of any English/French quarrel certain Canadians felt as if  the proposed changes to the amending formula were threatening to the rights  of Canadians.    It has been argued that some Meech opponents rejected it not for  its actual provisions, but out of retaliation for old English/French wounds.  " Clearly, what they ( Qu&eacute;bec  Anglophones) found so offensive in the measure ( Bill 101) was its symbolism:  the denial of full equality between English and French with  Que    Statistics have revealed that the French language was declining  outside of Qu&eacute;bec.  Yet the rest of Canada watched as Qu&eacute;bec passed a Bill which   certain usage of one language.  Some Canadians feared that to constitutionally empower a province  that was already repressing one language to  " preserve and promote"   their language and culture would be like giving a terrorist extra  bullets.    Not only are the factors which led to the demise of Meech  important to the future of the country but also the attitudes which have  developed since then.    Considering the failure of the Meech Lake Accord the existing  perception in Qu&eacute;bec cannot be anything but one of acrimony.  Qu&eacute;becers cannot help but feel that in a decade of  constitutional politics they have been slapped in the face twice.  It has already been explained how the 1982 constitution was a blow to  Qu&eacute;bec.  Once again, with the failure of Meech, Qu&eacute;bec leaned into the  blow.  In 1986 Qu&eacute;bec laid down the conditions which had to be met  for Qu&eacute;bec to enter into the Canadian Constitution.  One year later these demands were met and the Meech Lake Accord was  signed.  All seemed well.  Then three years later the Accord was rejected.  Qu&eacute;bec had been teased into expecting a kiss and instead  received a slap.  Qu&eacute;bec dug in their heels as a result of the egg on their  faces.  The obvious product of their tenacity will be a refusal to demand  anything less than what they demanded in ' 86.    Quite diametrically opposed to the tenacious stance of  Qu&eacute;bec was the position of many Canadians that any future agreements  would have to be less decentralizing.  " Indeed, one of the srongest reactions against Meech Lake  comes from Canadians who felt that their national government and national  community were weakened"   Unfortunately Meech opponents seemed as uncompromising in their  protection of the existing federalist distribution of power.    As unfortunate as it may be, the Qu&eacute;bec people were prey  to a fundamental misconception about the failure of the Accord.  Many Qu&eacute;bec armchair political analysts felt that the rest of  Canada rejected them, not the Accord itself.  " the stakes of constitutional politics  are high, and high stakes politics are likely to be ideological politics"    It is unfortunate that Quebecers felt rejected for the wrong reasons  considering the    Another unfortunate, yet significant, misunderstanding was  developed by the Meech opponents.  As this essay has already shown many Canadians resented the  decentralizing thrust of the Accord.  However, many Canadians also felt that Meech was another example of  Qu&eacute;bec asking for too much.  The misunderstanding lay in the fact that the decentralizing  provisions of the Accord applied to all provinces, not just Qu&eacute;bec.     The failure of Meech also heightened the problem of regionalism.  The resultant talk of Qu&eacute;bec separation spurned comments of  regional problems from other provinces.  John Buchannan felt that perhaps he might add to the neurosis of the  Canadian psyche by claiming that his province might just separate too.  He seemed to feel that he would grace America with the " blessings"  of his province.    Considering the factors which led to the failure of Meech and the  attitudes which have developed since that failure the die has been  irreversibly cast toward Qu&eacute;bec sovereignty.    There exist two factors which make the failure of Meech a fatal  blow in the age old Qu&eacute;bec/English Canada clash.  " high  stakes/ideological"  politics.  A Constitution is the fundamental law of a land; a legal blueprint  for a society.  Proposed changes to such a blueprint naturally carry the panic that  the building will be changed.  People are always skeptical of change and the intensity of that  skepticism is directly related to not just the proposed change but also what  is to be changed.  Thus, changing a Constitution is an extremely dangerous venture.  Second to the fatality of the blow is the fact that, for  Qu&eacute;bec, it is unexpected.  In 1987 Qu&eacute;bec was expecting a kiss they thought that they  deserved.  Three years later they took a punch on the chin.  The blow dealt to the psyche of Qu&eacute;bec by the failure of Meech  came from a strong hand as Meech was a proposed change to the Constitution;  the intensity of the blow was heightened as it was unexpected.    The failure of Meech will bring Qu&eacute;bec to the canvass;  Qu&eacute;bec will seek sovereignty.  However, the factors which led to that failure and the attitudes  which developed since then discouraged Qu&eacute;bec from seeking a rematch.   