    Culture functions to establish and uphold the values and norms of  society.  It is culture which civilizes and suppresses the savage aspect of the  individual to conform with the values prescribed by society.  However, this value system is heading towards destruction.  Culture can no longer conceal the savage instincts of the individual.  It is socially situated that we act in a prescribed manner.  Society decides what norms and values are acceptable, how people are  to act and feel.  Culture is society's way of implementing, imposing, and enforcing  these norms.  It conceals the savagery which is part of our societal past and  supresses these instincts to make people civilized.  However, by suppressing these savage instincts we are suppressing  part of ourselves and eventually this will lead to the overturning of the  social norms.   Yeats'  are literary representations of the  self-destructive nature of western society.  By suppressing our savage instincts we are destroying ourselves.  The norms which were established to organize, structure and civilize,  are the corroding forces which will eventually lead to society's downfall.  Culture has transformed the individual from savagery to civility and  now society, as a whole, will journey through a heart of darkness, realizing  the effect of this suppression, while moving towards a second coming or  release and return of the savage instincts.    Society uses culture to control and manipulate individuals into  acting in a prescribed manner.  These controlling forces, or norms, are the values strictly upheld by  western society.  These norms include notions of what people should do, how they should  act, as well as how people should feel.  The business class, men, women, and all other members of society are  subject to these norms.  However, these social values have only served to suppress the  individual of his or her instinctual drives and desires.  Conrad and Yeats both draw attention to the imposing nature of  culture to civilize the individual.     Heart of Darkness  .  Culture dictates that women are supposed to occupy positions of  inferiority.  Women were not supposed to be active, but docile and subservient in  their social station.  Two women, one  fat and the other slim, sat on straw-bottomed chairs, knitting black wool.   The slim one got up and walked straight at me - still knitting with  downcast eyes - and only just as I began to think of getting out of her way,  as you would for a somnambulist, stood still, and looked up. ( Conrad, 1765)    Women are sleepwalkers who go through the motions of performing their  assigned roles.  There is no real thought involved for culture dictates how to act.  The women fulfil only serving positions in which they keep their  culturally assigned roles of domesticity and complacency; they are serving  men but also knitting with their eyes downcast, showing their inferiority.     These culturally assigned roles do not only apply to women but to  the business class:  When near the buildings I met a white man, in  such an unexpected elegance of get-up that in the first moment I took him for  a sort of vision.   I saw a high starched collar, white cuffs, a light alpaca jacket,  snowy trouser, a clear necktie, and varnished boots.  No hat.  Hair parted, brushed, oiled, under a green-lined parasol held in a  big white hand.  (  Conrad, 1771)  Culture, even in remote Africa, imposes that the accountant be  clean-cut and professional; he is to look and act like a businessman.  Culture suppresses the individual to act in ways which are considered  to be civilized and consistent with the values expressed by the society.    Yeats depicts this suppression with his symbolic representation  of the falcon.  The falcon represents the wild and uninhibited nature of society.  However, culture as the falconer, has served to suppress the society  and controls its actions.  Nevertheless, these constraints are overturned and the falcon flies  beyond the range of the falconer ( Yeats, 1880).    texts foretell of the downfall  of culture; how social norms will no longer be able to suppress the  individual.  It is a shift from civility back to savagery.  Conrad expresses the overturning of culture with Marlow's journey  through the heart of darkness where he meets Kurtz.  Kurtz is a physical embodiment of society, representative of the  stranglehold culture has on the individual.  It is Kurtz who overturns the social norms in favour of his  instinctual drives and desires.  Kurtz is sent to Africa to determine how to suppress the African  savages:    ; and by and by I learned that, most appropriately, the  International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs had entrusted him  with the making of a report, for its future guidance.  ( Conrad,  1795)  However, while travelling through the heart of darkness Kurtz finds a  freedom from the constraints of society and realizes that he is like the  savages he is required to civilize.  He finds an affiliation between his inner self and the rites and  rituals of the native peoples; they reawaken his suppressed desires.  Kurtz sums up the effect of his, and the natives, suppression when he  cries;  ( Conrad, 1811).  Kurtz realizes that in trying to civilize the African savages western  culture is denying their instinctual nature.  "  Exterminate all the brutes!"  ( Conrad, 1796), because to civilize  the natives would be denying their drives and desires and, in so doing, would  kill them.  Kurtz also realizes that culture has had the same detrimental effect  on society.    Marlow, still closely tied to the social norms doesn't seem to  realize the efftecs of suppression and therefore can not understand Kurtz's  horror:   'The horror!'  He was a remarkable man.  After all, this was the expression of some sort of belief; it had  candour, it had conviction, it had a vibrating note of revolt in its whisper,  it had the appalling face of a glimpsed truth - the strange commingling of  desire and hate ... he had made that last stride, he had stepped over the  edge, while I had been permitted to draw back my hesitating foot.  And perhaps in this is the whole difference; perhaps all the wisdom,  and all the truth, and all the sincerity, are just compressed into that  inappreciable moment of time in which we step over the threshold of the  invisible.  ( Conrad, 1811-2)  However, Marlow does realize that Kurtz has struck upon a truth while  sequestered in the heart of darkness, a place of savagery without the  restraint of culture.    realize how culture has slowly been destroying him, it  has been suppressing his drives and desires.    Yeats also foretells of the destructive nature of society's  norms:  Things fall apart, the center cannot hold; \ Mere anarchy is  loosed upon the world, \ The blood-dimmed tide is loosed ...  (  Yeats, 1880)  Society is suffering a cataclysm at the realization of its  suppression.  The norms are falling apart.  Culture, the centre, can no longer suppress the savage and therefore  the social norms begin to fall apart.  People begin to revolt against their suppressor.  " The ceremony of  innocence is drowned"  ( Yeats, 1880).  The baptismal nature of passing on society's norms to the children  through socialization and culture, has come to an end.  No longer will people teach their children to be civilized but to  follow their instinctual desires.  " The best lack  all conviction, while the worst \ Are full of passionate intensity"   ( Yeats, 1880).  Those people who have completely suppressed their savage desires  become complacent.  They will follow the social values and are therefore viewed as the  best.  The worst are those individuals who have not bowed to the social  norms.  They still have a freedom and intensity of drives and desires; a will  other than society's.  By realizing how social norms have served to suppress the individual  into civility, the society revolts against the suppressor and again returns  to its savage instincts.    Culture is facing an overturning.  Society will no longer suppress its drives and desires.  It is returning to its savage roots.  , Kurtz is the messiah of  this second coming.  Kurtz, realizing his suppression, gives over to his savage desires.  Marlow, representing civilized western society, sees this as a type  of insanity:  But this must have been before his - let us say - nerves  went wrong, and caused him to preside at certain midnight dances ending with  unspeakable rites, which - as far as I reluctantly gathered from what I heard  at various times - were offered up to him - do you understand? - to Mr. Kurtz  himself.  ( Conrad, 1796)  Kurtz finds an affilitaion between his inner self and the rites and  rituals of these native peoples.  He, in fact, seems to become their leader, a messiah; instead of  trying to suppress the savages, he joins them.    Marlow, although he does not give up his civility, begins to see  the effects of suppression when he returns home:  I had a vision of  him on the stretcher, opening his mouth voraciously, as if to devour all the  earth with all its mankind.   He lived then before me; he lived as much as he had ever lived ...  The vision seemed to enter the house with me ...  It was a moment of triumph for the wilderness, an invading and  vengeful rush which, it seemed to me, I would have to keep back alone for the  salvation of another soul ... while I waited he seemed to stare at me out of  the glossy panel - stare with that wide and immense stare embracing,  condemning, loathing all the universe.    ( Conrad, 1813-4)  Only when he returns to cultured society does Marlow realize how  Kurtz, although believed to be crazy, had struck upon a simple truth.  Marlow realizes the constraining effects of culture, yet he  suppresses this knowledge with his other savage instincts.  long  passage from text   Marlow, realizing he is no longer like the rest of society, as he  perceives his and its suppression, must accept the savage desires which are  inherent within him.  He can no longer suppress his savage instincts; yet, instead of  returning to them like Kurtz, he hides his desires in fear of ridicule from  the rest of society.  Kurtz is able to accept his desires because he is placed in a  surrounding of savagery, whereas Marlow can only choose to forget his desires  because he is surrounded by people following the social norms.  However, Marlow looks with contempt on the complacency of the people  who surround him.    " Surely  some revelation is at hand; \ Surely the Second Coming is at hand.  \ The  Second Coming!"  ( Yeats, 1881).  He foretells of the overturning of civility:  Hardly are those words out \ When a vast image out of  Spiritus Mundi \ Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert \ A  shape with lion body and the head of a man, \ A gaze blank and pitiless as  the sun, \ Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it \ Reel shadows of  the indignant desert birds.  ( Yeats, 1881)  The sphinx is used as a symbol for savagery; a mix of man, the head  and mind, with a lion, a wild beast.  The two become intertwined to form one being, dominated by the  savage.  The turning of the gyre ( Yeats, 1880), has produced a second coming  of savagery;  ( Yeats, 1881).  Individuals will no longer suppress their drives and desires to  satisfy the social norms.    Western society is spiralling towards destruction.  The catalyst of this destruction is culture.  No longer will the savage instincts inherent in society be  suppressed by the social norms.  These savage drives and desires are eliminated by imposing culture  to make people civilized and complacent, as seen in Conrad's  Heart of  Darkness  .  However, these social norms are being overturned, and eliminated in  favour of a return to savagery as in  The Second Coming   .  Both of these texts foretell of the revolution from civility and  complacency back to savagery.  They sketch a complete overturning of the social norms dictating how  to act and feel, in favour of the savage instinctual nature which drives the  human race.   Yeats'  are texts which have been culturally  influenced, but function to draw attention to the suppression of the  individual and how the social norms instilled by culture should be overturned  for a return and release of savagery; individuals and society should no  longer be suppressed by their culture.  ###From W1A-001, 2nd text      Gatsby becomes illusioned by his exonerable possessions, he  believes his possessions will get him everything he wants out of life,  including companionship and friendship.  true friends is seen  at his parties, where his fickle guests are either gossiping about each other  or Gatsby himself.  The shallowness of his friends is confirmed at his funeral, where  nobody shows up.  Nick in his attempts to get all of Gatsby's friends together failed  miserably as all of these so called friends said they had prior arrangements  and would therefore be unable to attend the funeral.  