    It shows the reliance upon the female as men, except for the goblins,  are curiously absent from the work even after marriage.    This quotation is taken from " The Flea" by the metaphysical poet  John Donne.  Here he is comparing his love of a woman, and her denial of his  advances to a flea.   disimilar  items and blend them together.  In this poem Donne compares the flea to sex, marriage and even the  church as he attempts to seduce a woman.    This quotation is from the play " The Tempest".  This was one of William Shakespeare's final plays.  Here the reader finds a recurring theme in the play.  Throughout the play various characters are transformed into better  people through their experiences, and the devices of Prospero.    This is a selection from the " Preface to the Lyrical Ballads".  It was written by William Wordsworth upon the second edition of the  Lyrical Ballads.  In it Wordsworth attempts to explain his ideas about poetry and how  they stem from powerful emotions.  He disliked the crude rational vulgarity he saw developed in cities  as well as poetry and sought to offer a remedy.  Many have thought this work to be the outline of Romanticism.  An example of Wordsworth's ideas about emotion and poetry is his poem "  Tintern Abbey".    This quotation is from the poem " Dover Beach" by Arnold.  It occurs at the end of the poem after the speaker has decided that  only human love is a comfort during this time of confusion.  He sees the breakdown of society, which is full of wars, where the  foe is an unknown force.     Wolfe  .  In this work she uses fictional tales to offer true positions and  opinions about women.  Yet, as she states, these are not merely stories by contain elements  of fact.    This quotation is by Lady Mary Wortly Montagu from her poem " The  Lover: A Ballad".  In this poem the speaker had been confronted by a possible suitor who  has, no doubt, given her a  argument.   religiously  chaste.  Yet, she will be very particular when she takes a lover: one who  treats her like an equal and not an object.    This quotation is from Milton's " Lycidas".  It shows how all of nature is mourning for the death of Lycidas.  This is one of the pastoral conventions.    Heart of Darkness    Africans  , are so distinctive from men of the western civilization.   A dramatic monologue is a poem in which the narrator has a  distinctive personality that is separate and apart from the author.  The best example of a dramatic monologue is the poem " My Last  Duchess" by Robert Browning.  In this poem the reader encounters the Duke of Ferarra, who is  immediately recognized as a strong willed character.  A dramatic monologue involves a specific scene and location.  " My Last Duchess" occurs in Renaissance Italy, and the Duke is  showing his gallery of art, specifically the painting of his last wife to an  envoy.   listener  , who is inferred through the words of the speaker.   intinded  wife.  Notice  Neptune  all imply the presence of an observer.   revelation  from the speaker.  In 'My Last Duchess' the reader learns that the Duke had his wife  killed:   .  in medias res   .  It is a situation that has already begun and immediately draws the  reader in:  .  next page and end of paragraph missing     The form of this poem is a Petrarchan Sonnet as its rhyme scheme  is ABBA ABBA CDCDCD.  It does not end in a couplet which is typical of English or  Shakespearian Sonnets.   octet  .  The remaining sestet marks a change in the attitude of the poet.  The first part of the sonnet was solemn and saddened by the state of  society.  In the sestet the speaker offers his opinion, and a theoretical  resolution.    The nature of the problem in the opening lines is the decline of  society.  Wordsworth feels that humanity is only concerned with the business of  the city and material gain:  .  He feels that nature is no longer appreciated.  little we see in  nature that is ours  .  we have given our hearts  away  .  The solution Wordsworth offers in the sestet is an intriguing one.  He advocates a rejection of society and its values.  in a  creed outworn  .  He wants to worship nature, and by being a pagan he would once again  have feeling and hope.  The gods of the city, money and luxury would be replaced by the  ancients and their values.    This poem is extremely different from the typical themes of  Renaissance sonnets.  Sonnets of the Renaissance were concerned with love.  beautiful cruel  and chaste women that they couldn't attain.  An example of this is Sidney's " Astrophil and Stella".  Other, such as Shakespeare had varying themes.  In his works the immortality of the written word was prevalent, yet  he too wrote about human love.   Eyes" are examples.  Here, Wordsworth breaks from this tradition; and uses the sonnet to   upon the downfall of humanity.  While his sonnet is in the traditional Petrarchan form, he uses none  of the well worn clich&eacute;s about love, and instead meditates upon the  position of  .  Still, he does express a type of love, Not of an unattainable woman  but a pure love of nature.    This poem by William Wordsworth belongs to the Romantic period.  the  spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings ... from emotion recollected in  tranquility  .  The Romantics, of which Wordsworth has been seen as their leader,  believed that emotion was more important than reason.  the world is too much with us   , and advocated the removal of the material.  So might I, standing  on this pleasant lea  .  Their poetry is full of the imagery of nature, just as is this poem:   .  simpler   do the  Romantics.    The effects of time has been a continuing theme throughout  English Literature.  Many authors have approached this theme from extremely different  standpoints.  Time affects how a person attacks life, how they live and reach  within its  confines, and finally how they approach  death.  Marvell's " To His Coy Mistress", Wordsworth's " Tintern Abbey", and   " The Love Song of J. Alfred  Prufrock" contain drastically different concepts of time.  carp&eacute;  diem  attitude, while " The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" is the  complete opposite.  unseizable   , and that there is simply an excess of time until death.  Wordsworth offers the theme of time a unique perspective.  He sees time not as merely chronological, but as a blend of the past,  present and future.    carp&eacute; diem   poem.    life, love and its enjoyments before it is too late.  The speaker in the poem attempts to prove to his beloved that there  is simply no time for honor:  If we had but world enough, and time,  this coyness lady were no crime  .  The speaker uses a rational, logical and provocative argument full of  excessive flattery and subtle threats in order to get the woman to relinquish  her honor.   he  would woo her until the day of judgement, spending at least a  hundred years on each of her features:  nor would I love at lesser  rate  .    but at my back I always hear, Time's winged chariot   " .   life.  At this point he lapses into subtly threatening morbid imagery in  order to install the fear of death within her.   then worms shall try your long preserved virginity, and your quaint honor  turn to dust  .   let us roll our sweetness up into a ball and drag it through the gate   " .  For Marvell there is no time like the present.      " The Love Song of J.Alfred Prufrock" is the extreme opposite of  Marvell's  attitude.  Prufrock believes that the world is full of too much time.  in a moment there will be time for a  hundred decisions and revisions  .    the moment, and is able to replay countless scenarios within his head.  Prufrock is a man bound by restraint, confusion and inertia.  He feels he has too much time and that makes him unable to act.  I have heard  the eternal footman hold my coat and snicker  but he does not fear  death, as he feels that it would be an improvement from the present state of  things.  Unlike Marvell, he does not fear growing old.  the   I shall wear the bottoms of  my trousers rolled ...  I part my hair behind? ... do I dare to  eat a peach?   I have  heard the mermaids singing each to each.    He exists in a kind of stasis, where time has no effect upon him.     Wordsworth's poem " Tintern Abbey" offers a completely different  perspective on the theme of time.  For Wordsworth, time is not a fleeting force that one must grasp, as  with Marvell, nor   existance  as with Prufrock.  Wordsworth believes that time is a blend of the past, present and  future as it slowly moves forward.    five long  years!   provided him with comfort  during his darkest hours in the city.  When he first viewed Tintern he was young and primitive and was  unable to grasp the deeper meaning in nature beyond its superficial beauty.   is  .  On - this his present visit he experiences the past, enjoys the here  and now, as well as knows that the present will provide food for  the   future memories.  travel   between the past, present and future, especially with the help of  his sister Dorothy.  To him, she represents the naive spirit that he once was, and can  thus experience both her primitive as well as his mature advanced memories.     and Wordsworth  all acknowledge that time is a constantly progressing,  uncontrolable   force.   inevidibility  .   should be clutched and squeezed of all its enjoyment.  Prufrock exists in a form of isolation, bereft of emotional comfort  and companionship while he waits for time to run out.  Wordsworth experiences life through the pleasures of the present,  memories of the past, and hope in the future.  These three poems offer varying and unique perspectives about how to  tackle the problem of time.  