      The strong personal views of Voltaire can easily be found through  his caricature of characters in his black comedy  .  These characters, through their obvious ridiculousness, critique many  beliefs and poke fun at many people without openly attacking them in much the  same way Dante did in his  .  is a double-edged criticism:  it mocks the artificial order of fiction, while ridiculing what Voltaire sees  as the equally artificial order of philosophical optimism.    The first of these two criticisms, that of fiction in general,  becomes evident immediately and gains power as the plot unfolds and grows  more fantastic.  Voltaire parodies the seemingly " coincidental" occurrences that  conveniently make up most fiction by making these coincidences so absurd that  they become simply ludicrous.  Examples of this within the text are numerous: Cunegonde and her  brother are supposedly dead, but appear at opportune times ( Cunegonde in  time to see Candide flogged and to save him afterwards, her brother in time  to gain favour with the Jesuits).  Her brother is supposedly killed again, this time by Candide himself,  but even this is not permanent as he once again comes to life in time to  forgive Candide and come to his aid once again.  syphilis and his  seemingly permanent condition of having been hanged; the equally miraculous  healing of Candide's back after being flogged within an inch of his life not  once, but twice; the incredible story of the old woman whose traumatic  experiences seem to continue endlessly - - all of these events occur one  after another, and though they are considered fortunate by the characters,  they are still seen as possible.  The occurrence of all these events in the same story, and the  attitude the characters take towards them together make it impossible to view  the book as anything but a mockery of fiction itself.    Another aspect of the story that implies a parody of standard  fiction is the division of the book, and Candide's adventure, into three  symmetrical parts of ten chapters each.  Candide's adventures in Europe are neatly fit into the first ten  chapters, at which point he goes to sea to spend the next ten chapters in  South America.  After the completion his adventures there, the story returns to  Europe for the final ten chapters while Candide searches for Cunegonde, a  search which is finally resolved and neatly concluded in chapter thirty.  This even division of the story is yet another parody of neatly  ordered fiction which often seems to peak, trough and resolve conflicts at  just the right times.    is  of the philosophical optimism which was peaking in popularity at the time of  its writing.  It is in this criticism that we see Voltaire's personal philosophical  views reflected in the novel.  By abusing the optimistic philosophy and taking it to an extreme  through the character of Pangloss, he ridicules and tries to discredit those  philosophers who preached it.  But to understand the extreme Voltaire was taking this philosophy to,  we must first examine what it was he was trying to discredit.    A major proponent of the philosophical optimism Voltaire  disagreed with was Alexander Pope, and he expressed his views in question in  his  .  Pope's strongest assertion is best summed up in the last line of his  first epistle, where he writes that  " One thing is clear, WHATEVER  IS, IS RIGHT."   By this he does not mean that there is no evil in the world, but this  evil is necessary for the general good, so that man may choose between good  and evil.      " man and all nature is subject to law, order and uniformity."   3   It is this order that Voltaire attacks with scathing satire, and in  particular Leibnitz's belief that  " this world ... is the best  possible world, but it is not perfect,"  which  Voltaire distorts into  " Everything  is for the best in this best of all possible worlds."    One can now easily see the parallel and hear the mocking tone in  his writing when Voltaire describes  "  metaphysico-theologico-cosmo-loonig-ology,"  and when he explains it  as thus:  ... that there cannot possibly be an effect without a cause  and that in this best of all possible worlds the Baron's castle was the best  of all castles and his wife the best of all possible Baronesses ...   It is clear, said he, that things cannot be otherwise than they are,  for since everything is made to serve an end, and everything necessarily  serves the best end.   Pangloss then continues to abuse this last philosophy by suggesting  that noses were made to support spectacles and stones to build castles.  support of his exaggerated philosophy under  the unbelievable circumstances in the story that makes it seem as ludicrous  as Voltaire intended it to.  An example of this is his defense of the philosophy after he had been  disfigured by syphilis.  " It  was all indispensable ... since private misfortunes make for public welfare,  and therefore the more private misfortunes there are, the better everything  is."    In addition to this constant parody, Voltaire finds many  opportunities to fit personal insults and jokes into the novel.  Only one of this is a mockery of the real situation that happened to  a man named Wolff, a disciple of Leibnitz's.  Wolff's theory of pre-established harmony in reality prompted several  men to desert from the army, surely the basis for the experience Candide  himself has when he simply wanders off while serving in the Bulgar army.  Thus in the episode, we can see Voltaire making fun of both the  philosophy and of Wolff himself, who had been expel  led from the country  because of the scandal.    After examining these examples and the myriad others throughout  the story, it should be obvious to any reader now where much of Voltaire's  drive for writing  stemmed from - - from his concept for  false order; both the order of fiction and the order of the optimistic  philosophy of men such as Leibnitz.  However, his sense of man's need for this order is not entirely lost.  It is perhaps best described in the introduction to the book in the   " one can feel his amused awareness  of our human need to make order and our human desire to comfort ourselves by  fictions."   But for him, this is no excuse.  Candide   " That we human beings have reason ... is no ground on which  to flatter ourselves; rightly used, it exposes our insuf  ficiencies."       THE APPRENTICESHIP  OF DUDDY KRAVITZ    The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz   , the theme  regarding the destructive nature of society's obsession with materialism  emerges.  Fitzgerald and Richler offer a satirical view of materialism and how  it corrupts society.  , Duddy  climbs the ladder to material success, and it is apparent that along the way  humanistic values are lost.  , the protagonist, Jay Gatsby, is  portrayed as a man with great status because of his exorbitant wealth.  unfolds so do  his shortcomings.  Both novels portray the insistent material urgings of society and the  victory marked by the elimination of human values.    offers an insight  into a young man's quest for material success.  Since he was a young boy Duddy was conditioned by his grandfather to  believe that:  ( Richler pg.  11).  This conversation between Duddy and his grandfather, marks the  beginning of Duddy's transition into a materialistic world.  Duddy's search for his identity becomes concentrated in getting  rather than being, as he believes the self is to be found in external things.     Duddy becomes so obsessed with his pursuit for success, that he  loses sight of all other dimensions of life:  " You think I should be  running after something besides money?  (  pg.244).    also examines a young man's quest for  material success.  Like Duddy, Gatsby believes that one's happiness and success is found  in the acquisition of material possessions.  When Jimmy Gatz met Daisy he came face to face with everything he  ever dreamed of possessing.  She was wealth, power, and beauty.  From childhood Jimmy Gatz, maker of schedules and reader of Hopalong  Cassidy, venerated Jay Gatsby, a promise of unlimited opportunities in a  materialistic world.  Gatsby saw money as the creator of possibility and passage to  freedom.  Gatsby believed that once he acquired all of his exuberant  possessions, he could have Daisy.  it was just  a matter of the price he would have to pay.  Gatsby's obsession with materialism is demonstrated in the park  incident, where Gatsby, Nick, Daisy, and her husband Tom are having a picnic  together, and Gatsby takes it upon himself to tell Tom about his affair with  Daisy:  " She only married you because I was poor and she was tired of  waiting for me"  ( pg. 131).  Gatsby truly believes that the only way to get what you want out of  life is to have money, which will provide the power.    The Apprenticeship  of Duddy Kravitz  through the protagonist Duddy, and his treatment of  people around him.  He turns to his family and friends, not for companionship or love,  but for tools to help him get what he wants.  Duddy's lack of sensitivity towards his family is evident of his lack  of respect towards his Uncle Benji's house.  Benji wills his house and possessions to Duddy when he passes away,  hoping to give Duddy a chance to find the compassion he is capable of  feeling.  But his attempt failed, as Duddy's response was to sell the houseful  of furniture that Benji left.  Duddy's lack of compassion is further represented in his  relationships with Yvette and Virgil.  After making love to Yvette for the first time by the lake, Duddy is  overcome with excitement, not over Yvette, but the land he has just  discovered around the lake.  He uses Yvette as an instrument to acquire all the land he wants.  Duddy's incapacity to feel compassion is also revealed in his  exploitation of Virgil.  He swindles money from Virgil that he owed on the pinball machines;  He hires Virgil as a driver, knowing he is an epileptic, and is consequently  responsible for Virgil's paralyzing accident.  Duddy's insensitivities peak when he steals money from Virgil's bank  account.  Duddy won't stop at anything to get the land he wants, as he is  incapable of distinguishing between material things and human qualities.  At the end it is Simcha, Duddy's grandfather, who recognizes the  human failure contained in the material success:  I can see what you  have planned for me Duddel.   You'll be good to me.  You'd give me everything I wanted.      also depicts the lost humanistic  values which result from a society driven by materialistic passion.  Jay Gatsby, was a man in hurry to succeed materialistically in order  to win the respect of his peers, particularly the woman he adored, Daisy, and  therefore resorted to desperate measures.  