   Edwardian England came into being with the accession of King  Edward VII on the 22 January 1901.  For the purpose of this paper the Edwardian era is taken as having  ended not with the death of the King in 1910 but with the outbreak of the  First World War on 4 August 1914.  Although this era is often thought to be one of great wealth, promise  and grandeur, hence its referral as  this  paper will prove otherwise.  To disclaim this belief, an examination of the social, economic and  political activities of bourgeois women is required.    Women in Edwardian England had come to feel that they wanted to  claim a status apart from the traditional feminine role of wife and mother.  They were going to refuse the appointed labors of washing, cooking,  cleaning and serving.  In essence they were no longer going to conform to the masculist  standards and regulations of the era.  The fact that women were producing fewer children in comparison to  earlier eras,  " the birth rate had fallen from 36.3 per 1000  population in the 1870's to 28.5 in 1901"  demonstrates their desire  to break free of the reproductive role expected of them ( Read 1972, 21)  Being less burdened with the duties of pregnancies and domestic  affairs women desired to participate within the political and economic  activities of the time.  However their desire to participate within these spheres and their  refusal to accept the reproductive role constructed for them was not welcomed  by the males in society.  Men tried to make women feel guilty for betraying their biological  function of procreation.  " natural order"   of things, and they were blamed for the limited numbers of men  available for military and naval recruitment ( Read 1972, 24.)  It seems that for the most part, women were not considered as  independent persons but as integral parts of the family.  Men desired that these bourgeois women drop their current pursuit and  resume their subservient role of yester-years.  It was thought that the ideal role for women was to continue being   , emotional, fragile, passive,  compliant and submissive.  Any deviance from these qualities caused men to feel threatened.  For the more a woman withdraws into the home and gentility the more  the arenas of government and industry are left to men and men's values.  For the more a servant the women was the more a master the man was.  For the softer and weaker and more dependent the women was the  stronger and more powerful the appearance of the man.  As can be seen the sexes were to complement one another.   principal  that men rule and women obey, carried  with it inferior  and  masculist attitudes, proving that this era brought exploitation and  oppression to the lives of bourgeois women.    Edwardian middle-class women enjoyed more career opportunities  than their middle-class predecessors of the Victorian era.  This broadened opportunity was in part to due to the 1908 Labour  movement which favoured economic and social equality between the sexes.  Alas women were going to be able to enter into fields besides  domestic services.  " the young girl of today prefers to become a Board  school mistress, a post-office clerk, a typewriter, a shop girl, anything  rather than domestic service"  ( Nowell-Smith 1964, 143).  However, the belief that women were not competent at any task except  those traditionally designated " women's work" plagued the new philosophy of  equality.  Clerical, teaching and shop keeping were jobs believed to be "  feminine" in nature.  In 1901 the percentage of women clerks was 18%, compared to 32% in  1911 ( Nowell-Smith 1964, 187).  On the surface this increase seems positive, however it does not seem  as positive when comparing it to the percentage of women still employed in  domestic service.  In 1911 nearly 2,600,000 people were engaged as servants, over  2,100,000 or approximately 81% of these people were women ( Read 1972, 26)  Although middle class women might have preferred to be employed  outside the domestic service, the evidence shown proves that their desire to  do so was not fulfilled.  The limits put on employment opportunities were not the only economic  constraints.    With very few exceptions, women could still expect to earn much  less than men for the same work.  In domestic service the position of butler earned the top wage for a  man, he could earn as much as L100 year.  The top wage of women within the domestic service was L80 (  Nowell-Smith 1994, 145).  On the surface this difference in wage does not seem that extreme  however, it is when comparing the duties of a butler to the duties of a  cook-housekeeper that the inequality of wages strikes one as being  phenomenal.  The bottom line was that women had to do more work for less pay.  " there was  an increasing disinclination to employ men-servants, who were more expensive,  less biddable, and needed a license costing 15s.,"  ( Nowell-Smith  1964, 44)    The rationale behind women experiencing an inequality of wages  finds its roots in a particular attitude.  The attitude was that men being the bread winners were therefore  entitled to earn more than female workers  It was believed after all, that women were just supplementary wage  earners, their earnings were seen as complementing the males within the  household.  The limits imposed on bourgeois women's employment opportunities and  earnings kept women inferior in status and economically dependent on men.  In light of the economic life that middle-class women were subjected  to, the Edwardian era does not seem full of promise.    Edwardian women did not enjoy a golden era in the realms of  politics either.  Many Royal Commissions were set up to review numerous social  regulations existing in Edwardian society.  The Royal Commission on Divorce and Matrimonial Causes set up in 1909  is just one example.  " to inquire into the legal disabilities  under which married women laboured"  ( Cecil 1969 178).  Finally, after three years the recommendations were given.  Among other recommendations, the commission stated that women should  be allowed equality with men before the law with respect to grounds for  divorce ( Cecil 1969, 178).  Although the recommendations were voiced in 1912, well within the  Edwardian period, they were not enacted until the 1920's  In fact, the recommendations made by many of the commissions were  also neglected until after the Edwardian period.  Proving once again that Edwardian middle class women did not enjoy a  political period that was golden.    Even though women were allowed to vote in local elections, and a  Liberal act in 1907 allowed them to serve upon county councils, women were  still prohibited in regards to the Parliamentary franchise.  "  local government impinged directly upon women's domestic pre-occupations"   and was therefore suitable for women ( Read 1972, 208).  The National government, however which focused on matters of foreign  affairs, war and finance was held to be beyond the understanding and  capacities of women.  The subject of the vote for women caused much debate between the  sexes within the middle class.  The focus of one debate was whether or not women were physically and  psychologically capable of bearing the responsibilities which would accompany  the extensions of their present rights.  It was decided that women would not be able to handle the extensions  based on the following four reasons: 1. Women were physically weak.  2. Women were not able to work with each other.  3. Women had a negative effect on men's work.  4. Women thought subjectively and were therefore irrational. ( Read  1972, 211)  The results of this debate and other similar debates proved to  heighten the opposition regarding the issue of female emancipation.    debates such  as the preceding one, middle-class women organized themselves into Women's  Suffragist groups  It was clear to them that because men still believed women to be  inferior that they were going to have to fight for the right to vote.  Probably the most notorious women's group was the Women's Social and  Political Uunion  The W.S.P.U. was founded on October 10 1903 and was headed by  Emmmeline Pankhurst and her daughters Cristabel and Sylvia.  Women believed that the vote would lead to higher wages, economic  independence, increased job opportunities, and most importantly legal  equality.  It was further believed that by improving the position of women that  the relations between men and women would benefit too.  The Suffragette's first attempts at being recognized were  unsuccessful,  every year, on the opening day of Parliament, the  association sent a deputation of women to the House of Commons, to meet  so-called friendly Members and consider the position of the women's suffrage  cause.   made   theirs.  The ladies thanked the friendly Members for their sympathy, and the  Members renewed their assurances that they believed in women's suffrage and  would vote for it when they had an opportunity to do so.  Then the deputation, ... took its departure, and the Members resumed  the real business of life, ....  . ( Mackenzie, 1975, 20)  As can be seen militancy was not part of the women's movement in the  early days.  However, as opposition against the women's movement increased, the  morality behind the tactics used by Mrs. Pankhurst's members decreased.    Middle class women were tiring from the little attention paid to  them by politicians and the press, and in 1905 their campaign turned to  various form of militant action.  " that they must now act in such a way  as to prove that the Suffragists would no longer quietly submit to this  perpetual ignoring of their claims"  ( Mackenzie 1975,47.)  This was the beginning of a campaign the like of which was never  known in England, or for that matter, in any other country.  The interruption of political meetings, the dispersal of propaganda   pamphlets, and the willingness to be  imprisoned for these acts, were the first militant acts carried out.  These early militant acts especially the prison sentences proved  successful in gaining some attention and sympathy.  The most attention came from the press, whose silence up until then  had  (  Mackenzie 1975, 32).  Although some recognition resulted from these early military acts  they were not successful in evoking a response from the government.  Desperately wanting the Liberal government to answer their cry of  female suffrage, women found it necessary to increase the militancy of their  campaign.    "  Prison, or Votes for Women"  was going to take the issue of women's  suffrage to the forefront.  There was to be no peace until women were recognized and treated as  equal.  Emmeline Pankhurst sums up the emotions that the Suffragettes were  feeling when she says,  " Prison, Votes for Women, and at the moment I  feel I might be in prison all my life"  ( Mackenzie 1975, 29).  The members of the W.S.P.U. were instructed by Mrs. Pankhurst to  resemble an army and not give thought to the consequences of their actions.  Militant acts involved window smashing, arson, bomb explosions and  prison terms.  These prison terms compared to their initial imprisonments were  longer and more severe.  While serving their prison terms these radical women went on hunger  strikes.  Their extremism was met by a Liberal government's unprecedented  decision to force feed the striking inmates.  Force feeding taking both oral and rectal forms aroused widespread  criticism among Edwardian civilians.  In response to the criticism the 'Cat and Mouse' Act was enacted in  1913.  This act deemed that the Parliament's procedures of force feeding  while inhumane were sometimes necessary.  " Our former Laws have been adequate in dealing with  ordinary prisoners, but a new set of prisoners have come"  (  Mackenzie 1975, 230).  The act granted temporary release to ailing Suffragists in order to  recover their health.  After their health was restored they were to return to prison and  serve the rest of their sentence.  The government also issued another unprecedented decision, which was  the power to release without remission of sentence.  In the case of Emmeline Pankhurst this meant that the fifteen days  that she took for recovery outside of the prison would be tacked unto her  original sentence, so that she would indeed spend a full three years in  prison ( Mackenzie 1975, 230).  It was hoped that the 'Cat and Mouse Act' would break the  Suffragist's cycle of: defying the law, threatening to commit militant acts,  being sent to prison, being let out in a few days to be militant again.  The Liberal government's histrionic decisions although producing a  negative effect for themselves actually increased sympathy towards the  imprisoned Suffragists.  