   After Ellen comes back to civilisation she says this comment,  which was first said to her by Mrs. Oakes.  Ellen repeats this line, one would think she  believed in it, and her connection with men seems to verify it.  However, while she is among the aboriginals she is a strong woman,  able to survive in the wilderness, among people who treat her as a slave.  A woman who needed to cling to a husband like moss to a tree would not  be able to survive these conditions, yet Ellen does.  On the other hand, Ellen, does move from man to man if one looks at  her relations with Austin, her husband, then Garnet, her lover, Jack Chance,  her rescuer, and Mr. Jevans, a potential love interest.  This passage, said to her by Mrs. Oakes, applies to Ellen while she is  back in civilization.  The idea that a woman must depend on a man is imposed on her again   when she comes back as it is likely she will get into a  relationship with Mr. Jevans.  Ellen also needed a man to get back to civilisation, or else she  believes so, as she says that Jack was her only way back to civilisation.  But at other times in the novel, Ellen is compared to a tree, not moss  as she is seen as a strong person, which is the way I think readers would  like to see her.    In A Wedding in Spring, Flo, Snooker, Beresford, and  Knickerbocker have come to London from the West Indies.  They have come from a place where they were the majority to a place  where they're the minority.  They have only heard about London and now they are actually in  London, getting a lesson in what it's really like there.  wants his  wedding to be in true English style with a   limousine  and a tuxedo, he wants Snooker and Knickerbocker to wear  top hats.  But the wedding turns into a disaster and they make fools of  themselves in front of the English and Irish people.  They learn that they cannot imitate the English gentleman and his  ways.  They are not able to assimilate.  Flo is against the wedding but in the end realizes she must stick  with her brothers.  She learns that in a city where they can't totally fit in, she must  at least support her family.    Here Dr. Naigar is seen cleaning.  The stereotype Mara is working against here is that Indians are  dirty.  Of Customs and Excise begins with Dr. Bridget having  a nightmare about Dr. Naigar putting feces in her mouth, associating the  Indian doctor with filth, but in this passage we see that Dr. Naigar is a  clean doctor.   practice  medicine in a sarcastic tone because in  this scene Dr. Bridget has told Parvati and Mrs Ungoli that Parvati is 3 or 4  months pregnant.  This is a big mistake because Parvati was only married to Mohan, Mrs.  Ungoli's son, 3 months ago.  However, Dr. Bridget doesn't know this, and Dr. Naigar makes it clear  to Dr. Bridget that she must take the whole situation into account, not only  the medical aspect of a situation.  She is sarcastic because Dr. Bridget wants to insist that she is  right, but Dr. Naigar points out that  is right in protecting   Parvati.  Although Dr. Bridget may tend to look down on the Indian doctor, she  cannot, because Dr. Naigar knows some things she doesn't know.    This version of the Drover's Wife is the first one written.  It tells the story of a woman who must protect her family while her  husband is  droving.  It lists the things she must do as she becomes the man of the house.  kills a snake,  chases off a swagman, and in this passage, fights a fire.  The fact that she is wearing trousers shows that she is indeed taking  the place of the man in the house.  While her elder son laughs at this sight, her baby doesn't even  recognize her as  the baby truly just sees a man.  The drover's wife becomes the " phallic man" in this story, or at  least she almost does.  She still remains a woman in need in that she has the dog and her son  Tommy to help her with the beating of the snake.  And in this passage the four bush men help her put out the fire.  Since this story is popular with men, it is important that the woman  not become too independent.  She must still go for Sunday walks and read Young Ladies Journal, and  she must still be rescued in the nick of time, by men.    forgetting   spider man and this passage refers to why he must forget.  He forgets, not because he is stupid, but because he must protect  himself.  He denies terrible things that have happened to black people so that  he can survive and not become utterly depressed and uncontrollably angry,  which one could expect for the unfair treatment of blacks.  However, one must not totally forget  where one comes from as this story points out.  foreign land of Soot he  paints himself white so that he can move among the other white people.  There is a reference to a wrongdoing to a black person in that one is  hung, but the white person Anansi talks to doesn't seem to know why, he also  is denying what is happening to the blacks.  In the end of the story Anansi can't get the white paint off because  it has sunk into his skin.     unclear word  Soot, that he cannot retain his true colour.     In this scene Jangamuttuk is performing a ceremony in which he  combines European ways with his aboriginal practices.  one word   of the ghosts, of the whites, Fada and Mada.  Jangamuttuk is master of the ghost dreaming in that he is able to  make the ghosts leave in the end.  In this scene, Fada wants an end to the ceremony because it is not  Christian.  But Fada does not even realize what the ceremony is truly about.  A major theme in the novel is that while Fada doesn't understand the  aboriginals, they understand him.  Jangamuttuk is not really scared of Fada, he does not end the  ceremony because he wants to listen to Fada's orders - he just stops to "  humour" him.  It says he tensed then relaxed, he only tenses because he's not sure  who it is, but once Jangamuttuk sees it is Fada, he relaxes.    Of Customs and  Excise  women are depicted as profoundly different from men, as living  in a women's world of children, relationships, and domestic tasks.  However, while each work portrays women in this stereotypical  fashion, " Drover's Wife" ultimately reinforces the stereotype, while  Of  Customs and Excise    In Lawson's " Drover's Wife", the woman must take care of her  children, cooking and cleaning for them while her husband is off droving.  place is  off in the " workplace".  At one level, the story also seems to portray a strong, independent,  brave woman who takes on the qualities of a male as she kills a snake, scares  off a swagman, and fights a fire.  She comes even closer to being a man when she puts on her husband's  trousers when fighting the fire.  Rather than stepping into his shoes, she steps into his pants.  It seems that the drover's wife has the best of both worlds as she  can be a loving mother and housewife, but can also be a strong, independent  female.     unclear word  in a different world than males.  She is not truly living as an independent woman as she has her dog  and her son Tommy who insists he will never leave his mummy as he knows, as a  male,  that she must need him.   Journal" and gets  her and her children dressed up  for a Sunday walk.  Through this walk, she  can put on a show of  .  In a world of Australian wilderness that threatens to mask her female  side, she is still able to display it, although one wonders if this is for  her benefit or the male  benefit as it is too scary to see a  female become too " male".   it  the nick of time   by the  fire.  Although she does take on some " male" qualities, in the end the  woman is simply a drover's    seems to be  perfect, obedient Indian bride.  and   bears him a child, and cooks for the Ungoli household.  However, as one looks into Parvati's past, one sees she is not a  perfect, pure, bride.    While Parvati engages in an obedient marriage with Mohan, she  only does so  cover up her soiled past.   whom she truly loves; however, when she finds out he is from a lower social  class than her she realizes she cannot marry him.  Thus, she quickly marries Mohan in order to cover up that she has a  baby out of wedlock.  When the reader has this knowledge of Parvati's past, one looks back  at her domestic obedience, cooking and accepting Mohan's orders, as a cover  to the truly independent woman.  controlled her  fate.  decided to have a relationship with her first lover,  and  decided to marry Mohan to protect herself and her  daughter.     is the close bond between mother and daughter, which we see between Mala and  Parvati.  Parvati feels this bond with her own mother and after mother dies she  says she will always carry   her mother inside her.  Parvati tells Mala that she will also carry her mother inside her  when she, Parvati, dies.  While Mala denies a typically domestic life like her mothers, she  eventually settles into a marriage and has a daughter, however, one also sees  how Mala subverts this female stereotype.    Mala takes control of her life by leaving her parents having  sexual encounters before marriage.  She decides to go to school and decides when and whom she will marry.  She is different from her brothers in her intense  relationship with her mother.  While she tries to deny her mother, in the end she can't help but  recall in " Daffodils"  that  she will also carry her mother's memory with her.  She realizes her mother wanted the best for her as she slipped the  money under her door.  Yet, while Mala has this female trait, she does not take on a passive   polarizes  women from     subverts  seems to uphold yet ultimately subverts the role of females,   Asha.  Asha is definitely  domestic as she cleans and cooks for Bridget.  Asha also helps at a her home where she lives with her sister Sundri  and Sundri's husband Tilak, and their children.   and  thus   wedding.  However, it is in this domestic setting that Asha overcomes a man in  that she kills Tillak, while in the Parvati - Mohan relationship Mohan plays  the typically stronger, tyrannical man, here Tilak is weak and  at the   his fate is in hands of Asha.  Asha uses food, something typically associated with female  preparation, to force feed Tlak and  with   