Thinking about university degrees, I think that most of students agree on the idea that nowadays universities offer a kind of degrees that have mainly theoretical contents, and so, the practical part has little importance or it has less importance than it should have. Taking as starting point my own experience, I can say that in my degree, which is English Philology, most of the contents are only theoretical which is paradoxical if you think that most of people are going to focus their future on the teaching of English as a foreign language either in high schools, in universities or giving particular classes; so, why don’t we have any subject focused on the way of teaching students a foreign language? There are other degrees in which students have some hours in which they have to go to a school and they became teachers for a while, and that’s all before having their degree finished, but that happens only in this case, but not in my degree. I think that this kind of practical contents are necessary, because if you are not taught how to share your knowledge with your students, It is very easy that you do not find the way to explain concepts that you find very obvious, or maybe you will explain them in a way that would not be adequate for students; and if you do not know how to teach what you know it is not important the great amount of concepts that you can know; for example, if a person that is studying medicine does not put in practice all the concepts achieved during the degree, I don’t think that once he has the title he can say that he’s a doctor, because he’s not going to be able of dealing with ill people in spite of all his theoretical knowledge. I think that practice is even the most important part of a degree, because if you go to the real world you can find that there are a lot of people capable of doing their work very well without having a specific theoretical preparation for it , because practice has taught them how to make work better and how to work in the easiest way possible, but we can also find the other way round: we can see that there are a lot of people that have finished their degrees and that are not able of facing their new work without the help of that experienced people. Taking into account all this, I think that we are not going to be prepared for facing the label market once we have ended our degree because we lack the experience that we are going to be asked; because with this kind of educational system is not easy to fit the prototype of worker that the companies want : young , well prepared and with practical experience; so if you adopt a very critical point of view you will probably end by saying that this kind of theoretical degrees are of a very little value.
I agree with this topic because I am studying English Philology and all is theoretical and it does not prepare us for the real life. We only have some real work when we do the C.A.P. and it is only for a couple of months…and this is not time enough. I think that one of the degrees that most helps students for the real life is “magisterio” because my sister is studying this degree and she has practice classes that consist in going to schools and helping the teachers that are working there. She also works in the class with the students as if she was the teacher and not the practice teacher….and she enjoy it. And I have said this example because I know what really happens because I have somebody near that told me her case. But I have other friends and they all share the same opinion…they feel that they are not going to be well prepared studying in the way they do and think that their degrees are too much theoretical and do not prepare them for the outside life. I do not think that the fact of introducing hundreds and hundreds of ideas, lessons, etc in ones heads helps you to be better prepared … because somebody can be a very good student but can not work correctly and somebody that does not like to study can do his/ her work correctly. I also think that a more practice class could be a very good method for encouraging people to do more things, to motivate the students to go at class, to prepare themselves better, etc. I honestly have to say that the degree that I am studying is completely different of what I thought it was going to be. I will explain myself better: when I chose this degree ( because I was not sure because I also want to study psychology) I thought it was going to be quite different: with more English lessons, more oral lessons, more practice…because the fact of studying lots of authors, studying the English history does not help you to speak English better….and if you want to be a English teacher the only lesson that can help you is the C.A.P. when you have already have finished the degree or “perspectives” and this is not enough. So I think that the degrees or most of them should be checked over again because it can be a motive for giving up studies or when you finish you notice that all what you have studied does not help you for what is waiting for you in the real life. Because finding a good job is very difficult nowadays.. there are too little good jobs for too many prepared people…it is really a competition…and only the best can win. So everybody, the university system, the government should do something to arrange the problem.
This topic in my opinion is very realistic in the sense of we, the students, are not really prepared for the real world. I am going to begin talking about my career because it is about what more knowledge I have. It is true that, philology students had to do the C.A.P. to can teach in a school, but this course is not sufficient for us. During the fifth years of career we have practical classes, minimal practical classes in which above all we have to talk, but some students that are shy are not going to talk there and obviously the teacher is not going to force it to talk, because there are more students and the class is very short in time. Besides, in the university the treatment of the classes and the students is obviously again very different from the high school, because of the number of students. I know that if you are studying a career you should be sufficient coherent and mature to know your priorities and if you want to improve your English you should speak even a little. I know, by mouth of some friends that another careers are the same than mine, because in the university, in what a teacher is interested, is in giving you the main information about that career, it is normal that in a career about Law, you cannot go to a City Hall if you are not prepared theoretically first, or in an example even more obvious the Medicine career: this kind of career needs a very practical classes because in their hands ( when they be doctors ) will be our lives, and we, as a teachers, will have to explain to a group of children some information about a language, or literature ( although it can be more dangerous ). In relation to the C.A.P I think that in only three or four months is not sufficient to prepared us, and since you finish the C.A.P until you got a job you forget all that you learn and while the time passes you have less opportunities to get a job as a teacher; you want independence and you get a temporal job meanwhile you prepared oppositions and if you have the luck of getting a job, you accommodate there and think: why am I going to continue studying if I have money, a house, a boyfriend…? It is true that there are a lot of people and that all are not at the same way, but in my case that I am 26 years old I am thinking in finishing the career to can live with my boyfriend as soon as possible, and if I want do it I have to work, and I have to work in the first thing I can; of course I would like to be a teacher or something related to it and I have been thinking in giving classes to old people, because it can be more interesting. This is, in a way, treated since a point of view very subjective, but if we think in this topic since an objective point of view, I would say that in general all careers have only theoretical preparation, but although we, students, had practical classes during all the career and several hours a day, we will nor prepared for the real world. I think that until you be in the laborer world more or less two or three years you will not prepared for working on it. You will be able to do your job perfectly, but the laborer world is very hard.
As the old song says “Money is the root of all evil”. I think this is a big truth. Throughout the history of mankind we find examples of people who became cruel, egotistic, and mean, only because they had a lot of money and power. I think that money is closely related to power, once you have power, you are rich (economically talking); and normally once you have money (a big amount of money), you are powerful. Many people devote their lives to earn as much money as they can get at any price. They step over other people lives and dignity because they are so blind they only think of getting rich and buy as many things as they can, they want to have the biggest house, the most expensive car, etc. In The Great Gatsby we see how people change their personality once they are rich. They are proud, cynical, hypocritical… they think they can rule other people lives, they do not care about feelings or friendship, the important thing is to be in the highest step of the social scale. Moreover the richer you are the meaner you become (the rich countries do not share their richness with the poor). From the childhood we a re worried about money. We cannot buy a car because it is too expensive, we cannot go on holidays because money is short and your parents have to pay the rent of the house, food, clothes, etc. There are a lot of examples of people who get desperate because they are not able to pay their debts. We have a close and current example in Argentina: people are starving, robbering, murdering, or killing people in order to get food or money to survive. This is provoked by money. The animal instincts we have hidden for years, while we had money, have savagely arisen because desperation has come into our lives. In this world nothing can be done if we do not have money. In Argentina the situation is so desperate that persons are now animals, they have been driven to that situation, which seems to be endless. They have gone back to older times when the exchange of things was the normal way of “buying”. This kind of situations have happened throughout the centuries. There are a lot of movies in which this topic is the main theme. For instance, ¡Qué bello es vivir!, in which the protagonist is driven to commit suicide (although at the end he is saved by an angel) because the crack of 1929 has led his bank to bankrupt. Money has led many people to commit suicide, to kill people (desperate workers who kill their former bosses because they have been fired), to kill even members of the same family (In Jude, the obscure Jude´s son kills his brothers because they do not have money to survive), etc. Although these are examples taken from literature, they reflect real situations, to which the rest of the people do not pay attention. After all, many of us think that that kind of things will never happen to us. Many people say money gives you happiness, but some people want to get as much money as they can. Sometimes we think we will never do the things we see or hear on TV, or read in newspapers. “Those people are criminals or they are totally crazy”, we would say about people who kill because they were so desperate they could not think of anything else but killing or stealing. The terrible thing is that in cases of complete desperation (we are talking about having no money at all for a long period of time, or even for a few days) people are capable of the most terrible things, because after all, we are animals (although we are supposed to be the most intelligent of the animals). Money was, is, and will be the most terrible of the diseases because there is no antidote against greediness.
In the last years there has been a growing disappointment with higher education at Spanish universities. Some of the opinions even stand that university degrees are of little or no value because they don´t prepare the student for the labour market, that is, to compete on the real world. Although not every opinion is as extreme as the one mentioned it is necessary to look into the reasons of it existence. At the beginning of the 80’s a reform of the educational system lead to a sudden increase of the number of students at the universities which caused problems due to the lack of space, teachers and , generally speaking, money to cover all the university demands. Therefore, new faculties were built and also new campuses were created to satisfy the demands. All these facts made Spain one of the countries with the highest rate of university students. However , new problems appeared: now there were too many graduates for every post-actually we cannot make a sweeping statement about this fact because the offer and the demand varied greatly from one job to another. But the worst of all was to realize that there was a huge gap between what the university had taught and what the daily duties of the job demanded. It was a painful discovery for the graduates and a surprise for their employers. Sometimes it lead to the utterances of really disappointed points of view. For some years the overpopulation of the faculties was to blame for that, but now that it is over the detachment from the real world that some people experiment still remains. So, what are the reasons, then? Are the university organization to blame? The laws that rule them? The politicians that do not improve them? The teachers who are not orientated enough and therefore cannot guide the students? Is it the students who are not really so much worried to be alienated from reality and just try to have a good time as their education lasts? There are so many opinions that it is going to be difficult to find the real causes and probably even more to solve them.

As far as I am concerned the words of the old song “Money is the root of all evil” are related to our society nowadays. Society is changing very quickly. A lot of industries are being built and there is a lot of competivity between workers. In the days we are living, not everybody is happy and not everybody has a well-paid job. We can make an important distinction between rich people and middle-class people. In spite of the fact that rich people have a lot of power and money, we can say they are corrupted people: they want more and more. On the other hand middle-class people are costumed to live only with the basic things in life and they are usually happy. The problem appears when that poor man/woman becomes a rich person. Money destroys him. Family feels alone and without protection while the main person of the family is working out. There isn’t comunication between them and consequently the family is broken up. If the family is formed by children, these children will be independent and they will do whatever they want because their parents will be too busy working or arguing between themselves. Another different things to point out “money is the root of all evil” are the singers, actors or famous people. They usually started with a mediocre salary but when they started to be famous, they usually lose the control of their lifes (I should say this does not happen always but it is true this happens in most of the cases). They have to spend a lot of time away, without looking their families and friends. They are under pressure and sometimes these factors help them to prove drugs or alcohol. They have to bear day after day fans, interviewers, etc, and this is the prize a famous person has to pay if he/she wants to be a singer or an actor. When they realized all the money they have, they don’t know what to do with it and in most of the cases they spent the money in silly things. When they get older they have to sell their lives because they are ruined. I think this is a very sad thing. I could write in this paper a lot of different cases more in which we can see clearly tat “money is the root of all evil”. For example: sanity depends on the money: if you have money, you will be treated in better circunstances. Education and policy are two items very related with money too but I don’t want to lose my nerves writing about that. Summing up, as you can see in all these cases, everybody is guided by money: Money is very powerful and it gets to attack people of different social classes and ages. The only thing I have very clear is that human being is corrupted by nature. Nobody is coformed with his life. Everybody wants to be better and this wish to get it destroys lives.