It has been said that all that money touches becomes corrupted, and it may be true. If we think about all the problems that ambition causes, maybe we will be less ambitious and may be we will give more importance to the things that really have it. How many are the cases of people that killed for money, that left their families for searching the great oportunity of their lives: that is to become rich. I’m not saying that all who wants money can be a bad person, but money is not at all good reason for making something so terrible as comitt a crime. Money, it’s impossible to live without it, and it is demostrated everyday and in everywhere that if you don’t have money, you are nothing. It sounds radical that the fact of having or not money can determine our way of life and what we are, but in this capitalist society in which we live, money is the religion of almost everyone. However, there are some people who give money the importance that it really has, that is, money as something transitory, that could bring us some happy because it allows us to buy food, clothes, to have some pleasures in life, but we cannot forget that money can-not buy everything, it cannot buy health or life. Money is not the root of evil, it’s only a temptation which may lead us to evil. It has its valor as everything has. The evil emerges from the people who do not recognise the real valor of money; and these people discover later or soon in their lives that money isn’t the most important in this life.
One can think that money is the root of all evil because it seems clear enough that when someone is the owner of a big amount of money they are supossed to be something else, almost a Godness by society. Form this point of view, it is easy to imagine the differences between such “special being” and the rest of mortals, I means that this person is allowed to doing everything he/she wanted and, of course, this fact provokes a lot of problems and wakes up a sort of bad feelings towards both parts. The rich person also begins to separate from the part of society different to him/her and usually his/her only target is to get more and more money and to go up in the social scale (It nevermind who you must “smash”). But, there are a huge amount of evils that are not consquence of the money such as quakes, disseases, traffic accidents, etc… I think it is not money the root of all evil. We are the guilties but we need an excuse and money is the perfect one. If we try to imagine a society where money doesn’t exist in order to avoid social differences it will be the same that if we try to imagine a society where all citizens have a lot of money, the same amount of money. They would have money but they wouldn’t be corrupted because there wouldn’t be differences between them. So, as far as I am concerned, envy is more dangerous than money.
In the days we are living, it seems as if money ruled our society: There is a well known proverb, which says: money makes the world go round. Unfortunately, this saying is true due to the fact that, nowadays without money you have no importance. In these violent days we are living, there is a dimension of truth in saying that money is the root of all evil. A few bills or some golden coins in our purse may make us really happy but they can also destroys someone’s life. If one owes money to other person, he can be attacked, if it is to the bank that he owes it, he may lose his house, if a third world country is in debt with a rich one, it may be invaded or denied any kind of help. The question is, where do we go without money? Nowhere seems to be the most likely answer. The worst things happening nowadays in the world seems to have their origin because of economic reasons. Wars, famine in underdeveloped countries, terrorism or ecological disasters. Someone must have some profit with all these disgraces, otherwise it seems probable that some person or institution may have the solution to solve these global problems. Times when making money with one’s effort seem to be lost, while the important thing seems to be making a large amount of money as soon as possible without thinking in the consequences this practice can have.
I agree with this sentence: “All armies should consist entirely of proffessional soldiers: there is no value in a system of military service”. Military service can be useful if people go there in a good manner. If you impose something like this you’ve to take into account people against this. With a military service imposed the work is excessively because young people are not volunteer for this proposal. But if we have a group of people who want make a military service, their instruction will be better. If a person wants to make a military sevice this person will be prepared in a best manner than a person who is obligated. Voluntary service is better. If a person go to the military service if he wants, he will be a good soldier. Soldiers without a preparation could be an easy target in a war. If we thing of a war, we will need soldiers with a big experience. If we have a war and we send to this war soldiers without experience, we could have terrible consequences. All our soldiers could be asasinated and destroyed. If military service is something volunteer every nation can increase the number of its soldiers. Every nation’s soldiers could be amazingly good. If we have an army formed by proffessional soldiers we will have a good army. They’re going to be prepared in different aspects of the war. We could have a group for desactivating mines, other group for fighting in enemie’s positions, other group for attacking enemies in their positions, and so on. We had the war of Irak recently. In this war we could see the form of acting of the best soldiers. In this war we could see groups extremely prepared. This is a project of the soldiers. I’m talking about an american project for creating the best soldiers in the world. These soldiers receive an special preparation for combats and wars. This special project of americans have a name: “landwarrior”. With this, it looks for the best soldier with an equipment amazingly sofisticated – Guns, radars…If we have normal people in the army we cannot do this kind of projects. Normal people couldn’t do something. We need a group for looking for mines in the sea etc. For these kind of things we will need special soldiers. Professional soldiers can do all these things. Professional soldiers enjoy making all these things. But normal people can’t do this kind of things.
It is widely recognized that the education-system in Spain leaves lots to be desired, let alone English teaching system: When entering the University, students expect ot reach an almost native speaker level of English as soon as they are on their final year. But the cold hard fact is that it is not true. Lessons are boring and most people decide to leave before they finish. It is also true that lessons are very theorical; the student has not the choice to participate because they pass the time copying what the teacher is saying. Fortunately, the situation is changing and more and more teachers are getting aware about the situation. This does not mean anything. Some teachers have accepted to improve their lessons, but others could not care less about the theoretical lessons. On balance, the system would be possible to change. It all depends on the students, willing to learn and sensible teachers willing to teach.
It is quite surprising the fact that many people believe that money is one of the most important things to achieve happiness as statistics show. This kind of statement reminded me of an old song claiming that “Money is the root of an evil” and I asked my friends if they agreed with this belief. Needless to say that there was a wide range of opinions; they can be divided into two groups: those that are for the topic would integrate one of them and the other one would be formed by those people against the argument. The group of people agreeing with the idea of moneyas the root of all evil support their belief by saying that when someone looks anxiously for increasing the amount of money hidden on his or her pockets, this person has a main objective achieving a successful ending, therefore he or she would go through on the steps leading to money forgetting ethics and names. For all these people material things are like Gods and this is very badly seen in the eyes of society. On the other hand, we find the group of people disagreeing with the idea of money as source of evil. They base their opinions in the fact that money is proved to be necessary to achieve happiness and they make special emphasis in the fact that money is needed to achieve happiness but that money is not happiness. Therefore they cannot understand what is wrong in trying to achieve money to cope with the daily situations. To sum up, I would like to say that money can be seen as the source of evil or not, but in my opinion, what is the source of evil is that bad us of money.