Smoking in public places should be illegal. First at all because people that do not smoke have to breathe the unhealthy air. If I am travelling in a public transport I do not have to "smoke" because of one person. Old people and children are exposed to that air even they do not want to. Nowadays, there are several laws that forbid smoking in public places in general, but smokers have special places where they can smoke. The unhealthy air provoked by tobacco expands all over the room, if you are in a restaurant, or in a public transport, despite of being smoking in that special place. In a normal life, living in a city, you have to breathe unhealthy air everyday. That is, cars, factories or even our houses produce a lot of contaminated air. If we smoke we produce an extra contaminated air that goes directly to our lungs; and also to the rest of people around us. I want to say that it is unfair to non-smokers. If I choose the option that I do not want to smoke; why I have to breathe other's smoke? It is scientifically demonstrated that non-smokers in contact with smokers, in a period of a year, are smoking also the same. I mean, in that faculty I am smoking aroung three cigarettes a day, even I do not smoke. Why if I do not smoke I have to suffer the same consequences? Going on with science, a lot of people began to cof in contact with that air. It is perjudicial for that people. There are specific places wher smoking is allowed, but smokers do not respect that, and go on smoking in all the faculty. During the breaks you can see a great smoke cloud in front of the rooms, or in the hall. So, I think that of that people do not respect us, we do not have to respect them, and they have to be forbidden; they do not have the right to smoke in public places if they do not respect our rights.
From my point of view, I think that nowadays to have an university degree is very important in the sense that you could more offers in the future in order to gain a job but some degrees prepare you more than others in this sense. On the one hand, theoretical university degrees have advantages in the sense that you learn a lot, for example, in this it is essential to know the history and culture of English speaking countries and also the evolution of English language because maybe a day you could travel to London or another city and you could adapt better to its kind of life if you know how they life. On the other hand, I think that theoretical university degrees have disadvantages in the sense that there should be more hours of practices and it also could be small trips to abroad during the summer because the relationship with native speakers of different countries is important because you should accustom to hear different accents. Another disadvantage, from my point of view is that pupils have not a subject in which you can learn to apply English to another ways, excluding learning because there is a subject based on this, but this should be more than one year. What I want to say is that English language can be applied to other matters such as economics, so you could be work in a company. Regarding theoretical university degrees are of very little value, I don't think so, because if you are going to give an English class you can be as good as the math's teacher although he had a lot of practical classes and subjects in his degree. To sum up, I think that learning methods could be better in theoretical university degrees, but the important is that you have a good knowledge of your (especialidad) and when you finish your degree you can also learn how to apply these knowleges to your life, because I think that this is also our task.
In my opinion, smoking in public places must be illegal, because people who smoke annoy the other people that breath their fog and it is so pernicious for the smokers and the people who don't. So many years ago, the laws allowed to smoke in all the places. For example, a passenger in a coach could take a cigarrette and smoke it. This act, disturbed the other passengers that don't have this habit and it provoqued a really condition in the air that people breath. Afortunately, smoking in public places like planes, trains (only in non-smoker wagon), supermarkets, cinemas, educational places, and all the spaces that are closed. But there is an exception to the bares, cafeterias and discos that allow to smoke. I think that if is not allowed to do in a closed space, why is permitted to this places? But I think that the tobacco must be illegal, because it creates addiction and it destroys people inside of them. Their plugs are contaminated and people suffer from many diseases. And this is the reason because the tobacco is so expensive, so it has many taxes. All of the world is against the tobacco, because governements don't allow to advertise tobacco products on the television or in magazines and tobacco companies are crazy to publish their products to sell more. The reason why is not allowed is connected to the kids and young people who smoke very early in their lifes and it provoques cancer in their plugs (if they continue to smoke) or in other organ. If there no exist tobacco in the world people would life more time and all of diseases provoqued by it would erradicate. There wouldn't be problems to legalize or illegalize this and so on. In summary, we have the first step to illegalize the tobacco at all, but in some places it is allowd and from my own, I suffer a lot with this contaminated air and my eyes suffer too. So, it is very positive to have a law that protects non-smokers people that suffer from the others that in many cases don't respect us.
I believe that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because although these people have a different sexual option, which is different which the society has by normal, the heterosexuality, must have the same right because they are also human beings, simply that their sexual option is another. In my opinion this society tries to go of modern but to the hour of legalicing or be allow this type of things, that go more far than the habitual things, it always find something to delay or bury in the bottom of a hole. If this society is really modern and tolerant in these cases wouldn't think so and would act faster, like this do in other situations. Why so polemic by a pair of papers? The wedding, really, are only a pair of papers that say that you are married. Why say no to this petition? The homosexuals are people so normal, or more, that the heterosexuals, and I think that is a silly thing that only by this pact these people can not be happy and have to feel them more aparted by the society, that it believes itself modern.
From my point of view, I think this is a good topic to debate because it's a contemporaneous topic nowadays. About this theme many people have several positions with their respective reasons: On the one hand lots of people think that two persons with the same sex should not get marriage because it's amoral, not natural and atypical. They think it's impossible to be in love between them because they are two men or two women, so it's impossible to get love in that way. On the other hand, and I am included in this position, many people think that two persons of the same sex can be happy perfectly and they have the same rights and values in the same way that heterosexual people. So, if they want to get marriage or to have children, they can get the same posibilities than heterosexual ones. Unfortunately many people in our society are very intolerant each other; the respect to other people would be another interesting topic to debate, but in my way these two topics are very closed. The question is: who is more important that another one? Who has the power to order his/her thoughts? Does anybody seem to God? I think the answer is that if somebody believes that she or he is the most important above the rest of human beings and the society might obey his/her orders... in this case we will find the origin of the problem. People who think superior to another, he will never respect different thoughts, different positions. That kind of people believe that homosexual people are a mixture of a bad education or a bad personality or another nonsense opinions. When you are young, you like girls at school if you are a boy because that is the "obligation". If you are a boy and you like another boy, you get to be a strange person, and it's the society that apart thse ones in that way. In conclusion, they are not homosexual people who feel lonely, it's the society, the big mass of society who does it. In my opinion people with the same sex has exactly the same importance than heterosexual people, so if they want to get marriage, it's perfect.
The question, in my opinion, should be: Why the marriage of persons of the same sex is not allowed? I don't understand why couples of the same sex have more rights than couples of different sex. The marriage is an agreement between two persons, and I think these persons must have the same rights if they are two men, two women or one man and one woman. Nowadays, I think that many people in the spanish society think in homosexual weddings as something normal. Actually, the debate is at the street: politicians, journalists... are always on television discussing about this. The main problem seems to be the adoption: "Is an homosexual couple allowed to adopt children?" This could be a right for a couple formed by a man and a woman but if the couple is formed by two men or two women the thing seems to be more complicated. In my opinion, the important here is not the couple, is not the "father", is not the "mother"; the important here is the child. The important here are the child's rights.