
In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal because people that don't smoke haven't rights in these places. People that don't smoke never can be in a place where people don't smoke while smoking people have places for smoke (their hauses, their cars, outside, etc.) No smoking people have healthy problems because people that smoke is in everywhere smoking without think about heath of those people. I think that smoking in public places should be prohibited as soon as well because people don't have to breath the mog of this unsensitive smoking people. People that don't smoke only wants that their rights was preserved because if smoking people continue smoking where they want, in fifty years many people will be ill and then it will be too late to try to modifie the activities of smoking people. So smoking in public places have to be changed and then no smoking people is going to have rights in this case, because nowadays only smoking people have rights.
What's marriage?? The union of two people in which love is the base of everything, and it's also a contract, a paper where a couple signs to be registrated as a couple. At that point, we must think about the two parts, who says that one of them must be a woman and the other a man? and what about love?? and respect?? and sharing things?? and helping each other?? I think it doesn't matter what sex is one person, the important thing is that they share the same feelings and both are humans. Nobody must have the power to establish if you can or not get married with somebody you love, musn't they?? This question is also related to the fact of having children, because two men can't have a baby biologically and the same for women, but there are others methods to be parents, adoption, for example is a good solution I think, but here a problem appears: society!! Society could be very cruel with a boy that has two mothers, and maybe this could affect the child; so although I agree with all types of marriages, I consider that first of all, people should change their minds, and accept that happiness has to be accesible for everybody, no matter who they love or they feel.
I'm a smoker, and I think that we should respect to the people who don't smoke because it is bad for their wealth and we don't have any reason for disturb them with the smoke and the smell of our cigarrettes. Although, I disagree with the idea of making smoking illegal, because we are not criminals, we pay a lot of money in taxes each time we buy a cigarrettes' packet and we are responsibles of our wealth. On the other hand, I think that the idea of separate spaces for smokers and no-smokers in public places is good. But appropiate spaces, no little places that seem boxes or jails where the smokers appear as displaced people. Nowadays, the idea of this little boxes is becoming a reality, but is unfair, because I believe in the idea of the mutual respect. Appropiate spaces for smokers and no-smokers is a right, and this task is reponsability of the Govern because it is earning a lot of money with tobacco's taxes. The Govern is increasing this taxes continuously and is not supporting good publicity for prevent to the childs and teenagers from the dangers of smoking. This task is not only TV announces. We have to begin from schools, making the childs know the consequences and the risks of this habit with chats, videos, photos, etc. But this is not a task only for teachers. Parents, uncles, friends... all us have to cooperate (smokers included) in the task of prevent our childs explaining to them the consequences. Illegalicy will not repair nothing because smokers are going to continue with their habit while other people surely will become rich exploiting this business illegaly. I think that this reason is enough. Moreover, I'm sure that the Govern will never want to lose all the money of the tobacco's taxes because petrol is expensive enough. Don't you think?
Why not? Why the marriage of persons of the same sex shouldn't be allowed? In my opinion I can't find a real reason to forbid this kind of marriages. I think that the most important reason to get married with someone is that you are really in love with that person, and ... can't gays be in love? I think that we are all persons and we all have the right to fall in love, to cry, to laught ... haven't they? Probably, if people who write the laws were gays they can understand gays more. But I think it is simple, if you are in love with somebody and you want to share your life with him or her there are no problems in the fact that there is a man, a woman or even your brother or sister. Do they disturb you? It doesn't matter for me if my neighbour has a boyfriend, a girlfriend or if he or she lives alone with his/her cat. Well, in my opinion the solution is to educate people since they are children because you never know if your son or daughter will be gay. And if he or she will ... won't you love him or her?
I've have chosen option 1. I think it's a good method to stop tobacco's consume. Moreover, people who don't smoke don't have to be perjudicated because of the smoke of the others. If you want to smoke you should do it alone or with other smokers, this is my opinion. You shouldn't disturb other people, or children who don't smoke. They don't have to breath the smoke and perjudicate their health only because of the fact that you need or you want to smoke a cigarrette. Smoking is very unhealthy, it can cause cancer or other sickness, if you don't mind to take one of this illness think in the rest of the people, probably they don't want to be sick neither to perjudicate their lungs. Smoking isn't good at all: it's unhealthy, it smells really bad; the smoke disturb people; your fingers and teeth became yellow and finally it's very difficult to give up. On the other hand, from the point of view of a smoker, it would be a pain in the neck. It would really disturb me to can't smoke a cigarrette while I'm drinking a coffee or a coke, or after have lunch.
According to my point of view, the marriage between people of the same sex could be allowed, but in my opinion a marriage of the same sex isn't the same than a marriage between people of the different sex. I'm not racist, but I think that women and men are neccesary both of them in a relation of couple and over all in a marriage.I spoke about this theme with some friends and always it's the same conclusion. For me, two persons of the same sex can do the same things than two persons of the different sex sometimes. For instance, they can do the same works in house but they cannot educate children by the same way than a couple of the different sex. But this is only in my opinion, I respect other opinions. I think that a mother teachs different things than a father and the oposite. A mother is more comprensive and sentimental for me in some cases, and a father is more objective, he's sentimental too but he doesn't question for your personal problems. I think than a father tries to give you a good education and a mother helps you in your personal problems and both of them are neccesary for me.