First of all, nowadays the marriage of persons of the same sex is a situation very complicated in these days. We have many points of view in our country. On one hand, there are many persons who are living this situation. They are persons like all the world but they like same sex. Here we have a problem why they have not the same rights? Our society is not prepared for differents forms of life. The society and values are traditionals. But people are helping to a new change. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex must be allowed. The time is go on and it is another point of view about marriage. Men and women have right to choosing the form of life and the union who they decide. On the other hand, there is an opposition enough hard in our society. In many opinions this class of marriage is not good. For example, a very important opposition is the church. Because church consider traditional values of marriage. Marriage between man and woman for the procreation. Here is another problem: the procreation. The marriage of persons of the same sex cannot procreate. But we have one possibility: the adoption of children. Finally, I think that this marriage is a new situation presented in nowadays. It is a normal marriage with a little change: persons of the same sex and why not?
Smoking in public places should be illegal. It is very naughty to stay in a place where there are a lot of people smoking and you don’t like smoke. For instance, when you go out at night and in a pub with a lot of people there is somebody smoking. It could be very dangerous. Also, when you are in a caffee with some friends and there is somebody smoking your clothes smell horrible. For all these reasons, I think that smoking in public places should be banned. However, I think that smoking in the street would be legal. When I say public places I mean in pubs, caffees, shops, etc. I consider these places as close places. The street is an open place and it is different. Nowadays, people know that smoking is very dangerous. It could cause cancer and other illness. It is a really thing that a lot of people die as a consequence of the tobacco. People start to smoke when they are very young. They think that it is very cool, but they never think about the consequences. It is very important to explain young people the danger of smoke. Moreover, it is important to reduce places where it is allowed to smoke because people who don’t smoke have the right to be without the horrible smell of tobacco.
Smoking is considered as a free action so anyone is also free t do it, although the majority of our population smoke, there are also a lot of people who don’t like fire’s cigarette. As a consequence of this situation I see very reasonable that a series of rules have been created for smokers. However I believe that it’s extremely “hard” for this people (I’m not a smoker) that smoking in public places was considered an illegal action. From my point of view people should find an intermediate situation by means both “kind of people”, that is to say, smokers and non-smokers, are well in public places without converting smoking in an illegal action. So I think there can be many solutions. For instance in all public places like bars, pubs ... there should be places for smokers and places for no-smokers (the middle of the public place for one of them and the other for the others). In many sites this places have been already created but not all of them. A very hard and real situation is that nowadays young people start to smoke at 12 or 13 years old so they obviously want to smoke in schools and a good solution should be, if it’s necessary, put security guards to control them. It’s very extreme however I think that the solutions have to be very hard because it isn’t enough the photographs or hard sentences which appear in the “cigarette boxes”.
I think that smoking should be illegal in public places, because I am a non-smoking person, and I don’t have to breath other people’s smoke. I’m not against smoking people, but there should be a law which regularized the smoking areas. There are some places, where smoking is already illegal, such as public transports (bus, plane, train), and other installations such as restaurants or hotels, which have some special areas for smokers. Smoking became a dangerous and bad habit among young people, who already start smoking at an early age, thirteen years or even earlier, which has very bad consequences for their health. One of the reasons why they start smoking is that they want to imitate one of their older friends, who is a smoker, too. They also think that if they smoke they are more popular among their classmates, or that smoking will help them to find a boyfriend or girlfriend. Moreover, they don’t realize causes very bad illnesses, such as deterioring their lungs, or even worst, causing cancer. Most of my friends are smokers, and it annoyes me a lot when we are in a public place and the whole smoke comes into my lungs. I tryed to convince them of stopping smoking, but it had very little effect on them. I heard that the Government was going to prohibit smoking in public places within two or three years. Well, smoking is something really awful, but the only positive thing you can find in smoking is the shares in a smoking enterprise in the stock-market, which are surely to go up.
First of all, we need to see the person and not the sexual condition of everyone. If two persons are falling in love and they want to be a formal couple and sign a contract to be legal their relationship, is perfectly normal. Don’t mind if the sex of the couple are the same, isn’t important, the only important condition in the relationship is that they love each other and not think the sex. We could think something that the situation was diferent: the marriage between persons of diferent sex was the extrange thing, and the normal situation was the marriage between persons of the same sex, think about if this persons would permit the marriage. It’s dificcult to understand that if two persons are falling in love to each other, why not to get marriage?, it’s only a paper, but it’s a paper with a lot of meaning, a paper that heterosexuals don’t give the value, because is something that always be there, and with the pass of the years, this situation would be arrive to be normal for everyone. They don’t be surrender because if women had surrender the last century, nowadays we can’t vote. The real problem is that the persons that controlle the country are old peole, and they were educated in a strict education and they think that this is “contra-natura”, and they don’t see the person, only the sex of the person xx, for young people this is completly normal, because the education is more open and tolerant but an important point of view is the actitud of our parents, if they think that their education was correct, they will teach to their children that this is a horrible thing, but in the other way, if they know that they live in a strict period they try to change the bad influences and educated their descendences in a more tolerant world and to allowe that everybody can be happy and live their lifes in the way that they choose. We will fight for our rights and superate the prejudges because later on it will be produce more dificcult situations.
Smoking is an addition that affects many people in the world. In my opinion smokers should respect the people who don’t smoke, but this is very difficult to get without laws. I think that is necesary to get free of tobacco places like busses, trains or other little closed spaces because people that don’t smoke can be unconfortable breathing the tobbaco smoke. On the other hand we have places such as cafeteries, pubs, halls of public buildings... that I think must allow to smoke, unless they are very little. Tabbaquism is a big problem in the world, there is a lot of people in each village that smoke, so it is difficult to forbide them smoking in some public places. I think that one option could be to destinate some spaces specifically to this, for example, in a big company workers must stay many hours at the place of work, if they are smokers they need to smoke, the problem is that there are other workers that don’t smoke and don’t like the smell of the tobbaco. There should be a room specifically dedicated to these smokers. The problem of this decision is that no smokers can complain because smokers have little breaks each time that they want to smoke a cigarrette, but this have a very difficult solution. In conclusion I think that smokers must take care of the comfortability of the people that don’t have this habbit and don’t smoke in places in which it may be disliked.