My opinion about university degrees is very clear: I think that, although there are some exceptions, they don't prepare students to face a new life, together with its problems. University is a world apart from real world. We learn and we work, but always knowing that here we have limits. Our work is theoretical, maybe we are learning very useful things to the future (I hope so) but I think that it is not enough. We need much more, much more practice and specialisation. Theory is useful just if we are capable of aplying it to a work, and I feel that in the university this fact is quite forgotten. At least this is my opinion as far as my career is concerned, because although I am aware of all interesting things I am learning, when I think of future, I don't see myself as a good and complete profesional. Far from that, sometimes I feel that I would need more time to finish my career and being comfortable at my knowledge. Even though, I think that the time is not the problem here. To me, the solution should begin with a reformation of the educative system, not only in university, but also in school and highschool, with a more varied, complete and practical teaching, because maybe the level we actually have in university is the result of former errors. And, of course, a reformation on university, with a more profesional teaching, thinking of future, because students can't be five or six or even more years studying a career and, when they finish it, they can't work because they are not ready, this is a loss of time, money and mind. Even though, I'm not saying at all that university degrees are not useful. I think they prepare us as persons and they give us a global education, but maybe we would need a more specific one.
In my opinion, the most of the university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. There is a small number of practical classes to the students. I'm studying English filology. This is my 3rd year and I only have one class in which we must talk, once a week. I think that it is a very small time. In my case,talk in english is one of the most important things; and, if you can't go to the countries in which the english is the native tongue, you can't learn it. If you want to learn it, you must look for it in other places. I know that a filology is more than learn a language, but I think that we need some more practical classes. In our studies' programme, there's a lot of literature subjects and less of language. You won't be a great specialist in filology, if you do not know the language well. I'm talking about my case, because it is the best I know; but, in my opinion, it is the same in other studies. Nowadays, the university makes its center on the theoretical classes, and leaves the practical. This is something which is reflected when you look for a job. In other studies,not the university, there is more practice, so when that person looks for a job, it is probably that he or she can work on it. When you have not practical classes, you must work only on what you have studied. In my case, if I would want to work on translation; maybe I couldn't, because there will be another persons who have studied that, so they've got preference. If I'm studying english filology, people can suppose that I talk in english very well; but not, so I couldn't work like a translator. If my work depends on my practical classes, I could only work like an english teacher, maybe. But, if I don't want to work like a teacher, what can I do?I have to look for my own classes. So,I think the number of practical classes are not enough; and we are not prepared for the real world.
At the begining the first question is a little difficult to talk about it because the problem of smoking is in each person, and each one is aware to do what he or she wants. In my view smoking in public places should be illegal due to differeent things: on the one hand smoking is a very bad habit which hurts a lot our health and it can become a dangerous drug. However every time there are more people who smoke and they dont think about the consecuences that smoking has to. Furthermore I believe that people really unknow the true place where they are coming into and of which going out is almost impossible. On the other hand there are some people who can’t stand the smell of tobacco, and as it’s very dangerous for health, people who smoke shouldn’t do it in public places, but it’s a rule with which smokers don’t agree. Athough smoking is a very important problem in our society, we can’t unfortunately do anything because, furthermore, it’s an habit which is very difficult to leave it and a lot of persons aren’t able to get it. I know that it’s almost impossible to change the view of a smoker, but I hope among all people we will get to help people who want to leave smoking. But for this it’s necessary to try it, as least.
I think that smoking in public places should be illegal. Nowadays in most of the places smoking is prohibited but there are still some of them where it can smoke. These places are very incomoded and each more time the ex-smokers and no-smokers increase their number. In last time, few years ago, we could smoke in all places. The new was smoking. If you smoked, you were fashion. We were talking about the 60s, when the freedom and the discontrol began in this country. It could smoke in the “cafés” (of course); in the University, even when you were doing an exam or when you were assisting at class ... At schools, the most of teachers smoked, and they did it when they were imparting the lesson. Doctors and nurses smoked at the hospital too. To sump, if you didn’t smoke in 60s, you whould be a very bizarre person; and people what had breathy illness, you whould feel too bad. But, nowadays it is knowing the problems of smoking, and a lot of people are trying give it up. It’s very difficult because cigarettes are a drug, a light drug but they are a drug because they give us adiction. There are some methods to try give up, such us some books, nicotine chewing-gums, vitaminics diets, help psicologist help... Each more time tabacco increases its prize, “Tabacalera” ( bussines of tabacco in Spain) is not totally of the State, places where it cannot smoke are more, the State is prohibiting smoking in for trips by train, in the busses, in State’s offices... Now if you smoke, you will be a very bizarre person.
I have chosen the third option: “Should the marriage of persons of the same sex be allowed?” because I think that it’s an interesting and common subject nowadays in our world. Although I am a progressive person not everybody is as me: there are a lot of people who still live in days of the dictature and they have untolerant opinions about that. In my oppinion, in this society is still very difficult to show our sensibilities, our emotions, our thinkings, our opinions ... in public, we try to have the maximum information about our lives in ourself. Why we get this position? Simply, because all we would do will be critiqued by the others. The marriage between people of the same sex is only one of the innumerable moral problems that they exist in this planet. Only a courage person can exhibite her preferences in public in spite of the sayings. I think that this is a correct but difficult position but, with people like that, the world would be easier. I agree about bringing an opportunity to the homosexual persons because it is something normal in our days; they are persons too!!they don’t make harm to nobody!! It would be fantastic that would exhist an equality between us. They can’t forbide to express our preferences!it is our live! It is our decition!! Love hasn’t fronteries. It’s a hard feel ... I think it’s important to change the mind of a lot of people who don’t understand that it’s a big problem to the homosexual persons. I look forward that, in the future, it would be easier to live, simply to live, and to can choose our elections.
In my opinion I think that marriage should be allowed between people of the same sex; in fact, a law that allows persons of the same sex to get married has been approved in Spain a few days ago. I think it is a good step in society because every one should have the same rights and should be equal in terms of justice although their feelings, ideas, tastes, sexual inclinations .... are different. We have to learn to accept people, we have to be tolerant in the same way other people is tolerant with us, we have to be respectful with the individuality of each person and behave in such a way that the other person feel comfortable. At the beginning there may be people that feel puzzled by the fact that people of the same sex can get married; these people are usually people of advanced age with fixed ideas in the past that find difficult to accept the changes. I think that couples of the same sex also have to have the same advantages as other couples formed from different sexs. I guess that persons of the same sex should be able to addopt children. I think it is a good choice for both the couples of the same sex because they can’t have a child by their own and the children because there are a lot of children that are abandoned and they sometimes live in bad conditions. It is good for a couple to bring a child up because in this way they can have the opportunity of being parents, because if the addoption isn’t allowed between couples of the same sex, there will be cases in which the paternity will be a imposible matter, as for example in the case of a couple formed by two men. The couples of the same sex if they are married they also can have the advantage of receiving a sum of money every month if any member of the couple dies and the other becomes a widower. In the case of being heirs it would be easier if they are married to receive the inheritance, and if they are not married may be, there will be many problems to become in a heir.