I think that when I get my degree in english Philology, I will know a lot of things that won’t help me at all either in my laboral life or in my normal life. Some people, when they finish their degree know a lot of practical things (for example, how to control certain machines of industry, or computers). This practical things can help them in their laboral life and make them usefull members of our so call modern society. But when students of Philology yet their degree what do they know? A lot of things about sintactic analisys that I think are usefull and stupid. Well, when we finish our degree we also know something about history and literature, and for me this is an important knowledge, because in my opinion, in order to understand the present is a good thing to know the past. Well, we know about literature and history, and also we should know how to speak english (but if you finish English Philology and you haven’t stayed abroad you won’t know english) but, what can we do with this knowledge, for example, teach somebody what we know, for the want of money. I think education is a lie and the title that we get is only one way of classify us and make us more competitive.
I really think that most university degrees are theorical and do not prepare students for the real world. When I started to study English Philology at the university, what I really surprised me was that the level of “English Language” was very low. I realized that in high school, I had more level of English language, in vocabulary for example. I think that at university is important a good base of grammar, that is tought at high school, but on another hand, I think that at university, we have to study morphology (theorical and practical terms), phonetics and phonology, syntax, history, literature ... many theorical knowledges, but What’s wrong with Orality? I think that the most important thing of leaning a language is Orality, speaking. The aim of languages in the world is communication. For communicating us, we need grammar, but not only grammar, we need more practise on Speaking. For becoming in good Phylologists, we need know some basic notions of the culture of the country, because in the different languages there are some terms, words that only the people of that country says, and this is very important. I think that students of university know about grammar but no so much about these words or sentences characteristics of the country. In my opinion and to sum up, I think that the big aim of the English language teachers must be to teach many vocabulary (formal and colloquial) and Speaking, so the student will be more prepared.
In my opinion, I think that tobacco is very bad for all the people, people who smokeand people who receivethe smoke. The smokers don’t really feel all the bad elements that there are in a cigarrette at the moment that they introduce it in them months and absorve the smoke, but years later they feel the bad consecuences: they have the teeth yellow, them throught are very perjudicated, them laugs are full of smoke, them neils of the fingers that they used to take the cigarrette are yellow, ... also when they play some sport or they run, they quickly feel tired, because tobacco reduce the health of people. In plubic places smoke all the people, moreover if the place is closed. For example, in a bar, where there is twenty tables, if there is one or two smokers in each table, the place is full of smoke that it is received for all the people who stay there. I don’t think that it thing could be legal, because in this way everybody pay the consecuences that are produced for some people.
In my opinion marriage of persons of the same sex have to be allowed. We are always saying that we are in a new world, a liberal and tolerate world. We are always saying that we are sure that we are liberal people but, is this really? I think is true to say that many of us are lieying. When we are walking along the street and we see a couple of women or a couple of men kissing, we can’t avoid look at them. I’m not saying that this is a bad thing, because I know that this situation is a little bit strange to us at the beginning. But I hope that in little time we’ll get acostumbrated to it. The Spanish Government have just aprobated a law which says that marriage between persons of the same sex are allowed. I think that aprobe this law is a good thing to our society, because little by little this will us more tolerated. It is said that the government should aprobe the law that will permit homesexual couples to adopt children. I’m not sure that it is a good idea because I think that children at school are very bad, and that can determinate the sexual condition of the boy or of the girl but, the time will say that! Each person can have a different opinion but I think that it is normal, each people can have his own opinion. Well, I think that it is a very complicated subject, but in few years I’m sure that, if we don’t change of government, all these laws will be aprobed.
There are many opinions about this particular topic, because this is a controversial thing. On the one hand, the Church supports the opinion of not allowing these marriages, because it's said that God wouldn't permit them and it's against Nature. On the other hand, the Government is trying to allow marriages of persons of the same sex, although there are many doubts about it. From my point of view these marriages should be allowed, because love doesn't understand about religion and politic. However, I have many doubts about adopting children, because it could be a big problem for them. Let's put an example: Children would feel a bit different from the others if they had two fathers instead of one father and one mother. As I am concerned, I desagree with all those people who don't want persons of the same sex to marry, because everyone can do what they want if they don't disturb other people. We cannot tell other persons what they should do, but I know some persons that think they can, like a friend of mine who doesn't accept people who don't think as he does. This is not fair, because if everybody made the same we all couldn't live in peace and we would kill everybody. Why don't we let them do what they want? I would feel bad if someone told me who I have to marry with.
Nowdays, there are many polemic situations and opinions about the marriage of persons of the same sex. There are different minds about the allow of htese marriages. It’s normal, because it’s difficult choose the right option. Anybody have to can understand that the marriage is the union of two persons, not necessary a man and a woman. If we follow and accept this, it can’t be a problem allow this kind of marriages. So that, many problems of convivence would be resolve. For the law, this marriage would be legal and they would have the same rights and responsabilities. But a marriage also have others responsabilities apart from money, the house, etc.. Have a son or a daugther can be other responsability or consecuence of the marriage. A son or a daugther will make more difficult that it be accept. We can understand they can love it like any parents, but the rest of society maybe can not accept. The bigger problem will be the rest of children. They are very naive and they will be the first in ask for the mother or the father that isn’t. They will ask: “ Why I don’t have mother (or father) and my parteners do?”, or his parteners ask to his parents: “Why X has two fathers and no mother?” What will we answer them? For me, it’s the real problem about the marriage of persons of the same sex. I think same things can be allow, but not all.