I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and there are a lot of reasons for doing it. First, smoking causes terrible injures in people’s health and anybody would have to suffer them if he/she doesn’t smoke. Smoking is a personal election, so smokers shouldn’t impose their election to the people that are around them. This is specially true in the case of pregnant women or ill people who cannot breath smoke in any case. In my opinion if smoking was illegal that would have very positive effects for everybody. One of the positive effects would be that some smokers would stop smoking so they could improve their health and their economy. Another positive effect would be that the state could save a lot of money in illnesses that are closely related with smoking like heart attacks and some kinds of cancer. At last a lot of people who don’t smoke could live of work in a clean ambient and they wouldn’t have to suffer the consequences of another people’s vices. However, there are a lot of people, most of them smokers, who say that forbidding smoking in public places would suppose a persecution against smokers. It’s funny that smokers say that because they are the ones that impose their smoke to the other people. Another reason that smokers argue is that if smoking is so bad, (it) tobacco should be banned. The reason why tobacco isn’t banned it’s cultural and because of traditional reasons. Also, smoking in private don’t causes injures to anybody. At last, for all these reason I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and if that happened everybody could live in a more civilized and cleaner world.
Should the marriage of persons of different sex be allowed? Is there any doubt about the answer? What are all of us? We are persons, and everyone should choose without problems the way in which he or she wants to love. People think that everything have to be stablished, everything have to follow the same pattern, and that is the great mistake because every person is a world. Inside our own world, we can share or have things in common with others and in this way, by similitudes, we tend to be and live with people who make us happy, or good, or whatever. Who says there is something estrange love between persons of the same sex, does not care real feelings, because that is what is really important. If a couple like this want to marry, why they should have problems? They would not be causing problems to anybody, so, let's go! The problem here are the prejudices, church, ... society and cultural points of view, that are afraid from they don't know. I am not able to understand why this would be a problem so I can't argue in a best way.
In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal and in fact I think it would be so in few years as in other countries. Since I am smoker it would be expected from me not to think so. The question is that everyone can chose whether to smoke or not but being it allowed in public places many non-smokers have no other option that to become passive ones. I take as an example the situation in Ireland where smoking in public places have been banished a year ago. At first this can be seen as an abusive measure but there are many factors to take into account. The 1st one are obviously non-smokers who can go everywhere, even to pubs or discos enjoying a healthy enviroment. This is even more important when speaking about workers who cannot chose to go to a place depending on whether smoking is allowed or not. I didn't see this so clear till this year when I was working in Dublin as a waitress in a pub. Even when the place was crowded there was no that feeling as in Spanish pubs where the atmosphere is so heavy that there is difficult to see or even to breath. The 2nd factor are the smokers themselves because even if they decide to keep on smoking the number of cigarettes will be diminished since they have to get out the place they are to take one.