It is really amazing this question, for the last months the debate about marriage of persons with the same sex has increased enormously, all the sectors in the society and even between the different political parties; in fact, they are those who are creating the social conflict; are showing their own opinions and ideas about, from my point of view, something what is really basic and clear: marriage between homosexual people must be allowed, and there is no genuine idea which makes face to it actually. Conservative people and those who came from church and groups called "Family Association" or something similar have been creating conflicts and problems; they have been making demonstrations, promoting antique and rude ideas, and, specially, they have been insulting the gay sector, something, from my point of view, absolutely disgusting. This people, those who, 30 years before, were next to the fascists trying to stop a democratic transition, should think that we are in 21st century, ideas have changed, people have changed, the society have changed and, ("fucking hell!") we are in Democracy!! A marriage between persons of the same sex is not dangerous for no one at all. If my neighbours, my friends, whoever want to get married and they are gay, I am not going to opposite, I am, just, going to support them.
I am a person who does not smoke. On the one hand, I do not like very much when there are a lot of people smoking around me, because it makes me ill. Apart from this, it does not bore me when two or three people are smoking in the same place I am, because I consider that if there was a place where they could stay smoking, they would be there. Fortunately, five days ago a new law was introduced into society. What this law establishes is that all public establishments must decide if they are for smokers or non-smokers. If they are for both, they must be divided into two zones: people who smoke and people who do not smoke. I like this law very much, because in this way, in all public places (pubs, and so on) all people will be comfortable: people who smoke are comfortable all together in one place and in other place of the establishment are the people who do not smoke. Regarding to public places, I think this law is the solution, but before it I can understand that people smoked in public places. On the other hand, there are people who really hate tobacco because it makes them ill. So, I also can understand that this people do not allow smokers near them. These are two different types of having into account the people who smoke: people who allow them smoke in public places and people who do not. Before the new law, this was a very difficult situation for them, but nowadays it is different, it was a very positive change. Two months ago, I was in a Café with a friend of mine, and the woman who was in the front table began to smoke. This fact does not bore me, but the couple who were near us began to cough; they looked at the woman in a threatening way and then they went out. The woman who was smoking light off the cigar and drunk her coffee. This was a compromising situation for her. I do not know how I would react if I were a smoker person and I was in situation like that. I agree with people who smoke in a public place (like a pub) but I think they can be a bit "solidarios" and smoke in a moment when there are not too many people around them. If there are a lot of people in a concrete moment, they (smokers) can wait until a time when this people went away. And over all, I think they would never smoke when there are babies around them. In conclusion, I understand that there were two different possitions regarding to smoking in public places. In my particular point of view, I do not think it should be illegal but what I consider is that smokers should have into account the moment when they light on the cigar and be careful about the people they have around them. They must have into account if there are babies or old people near them, because they are the most fragile, sensitive people, but also people who are ill and tobacco hurt them. With the new law these problems have been resulted.
Each person is different and should be free to make decisions of his/her own life. If someone wants to marry a person of his/her same sex, it is his/her decision and no one can avoid it. If it happens it is because that person is not strong enough. But why are there people who think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should not be allowed? They say that it is not a normal thing that two people of the same sex have a relationship. They think God created the man and the woman to be toguether and to have children. This is something that homosexual relationships could not do never: having children (if we do not talk about homosexual relationships of women who can do it using the method of the artificial insemination). These people do not understand that a person can love other with independence of his/her sex. In my opinion, this is what happens with homosexual people They simply love.
I think that a person smokes in a public place is very impolite. In my opinion people mustn’t smoke because can be bad for the health. The public institutions don’t recomended smoke because the problems are more. A lot of people don’t comprehension that the ciga give problems us. The students start smoke in the Secondary School. Their friends also buy cigarettes. In my point of view people smoke and smoke. Perhaps nowadays women buy more cigarettes than the men. The government don’t created an institution against smoke in “public places”. It must make it. It is neccessary. The people need more help to do not get cigarettes. More times there are people that they want go out of this routine. The students of the University smoke less because they aren’t younger than the other student people. In the other way people must forget smoking because is a conflict in suppose.
Smoking is at the moment an issue of great importance. a lot of people argue about it. There are different opinions and this might become a problem. Firstly, I think it would be interesting to say that this particular drug is bad for someone’s health. Furthermore, the smoke may affect the people who stay near a smoker. On the other hand, as far as I am concerned, it may be considered like a lack of respect. For example, if I am eating in a restaurant and there is a smoker who is sat near from me, this fact might disturb me. Another important theme is that many people want to smoke in public places. It should be illegal because this action can repercute over the others and it is not healthy. There are more and more pacients with lung cancer and it might be avoidable if the smokers fallow the law which has been established several months ago. In different countries from Spain, the situation in relation with the smokers has really improved thanks to the laws and helps of the government. As well, in other places the people have decided to stop to smoke in order for their health to become better. To resume, if everybody could do it, why we cannot?
We are in the 21st century and people should have a more open mind concerning to everything in general, but specially when we talk about human rights and desires. Nowadays, a lot of people manifest themselves as homosexuals and they are people like you and me, with the same necesities, feelings and problems. So, why are not they going to get married? According to some religions people, homosexual people are mentally ill, trastorned and the fact of getting married among them is a 'terrible sin' because it goes against Biblical beliefs and it is bad seen by God's eyes. For example, the Bible says that women and men were created to populate the earth and procreate, so homosexual couples cannot do that because of obvious circumstances. However, new generations think different about this topic, so people start to be more tolerant with everything related to gays and lesbians. More and more people become homosexual and in a near future, I think we are going to equilibrate the balance among heterosexual and homosexual population. Everybody have ever known a gay or a lesbian and it is totally normal, but not ten years ago. For example, I have a lesbian's cousin and she is supported by her friends and family, but several years ago this could be different. In spite of all these progresses of human's mind, it still exists a very large group of people who do not agree with this theme but they are going to end up accepting it as normal, I hope.