The new anti-smoking law comes to solve a very important problem in public health. The prohibition of smoking in public places is a good idea because it is a benefit for everyone. Passive smokers do no longer have to worry about breathing someone else's smoke which is especially dangerous in some situations, such as when children or pregnant women are involved. Furthermore, it will be good for smokers as well since it will help them to dicrease the number of cigarettes a day. If they are no longer allowed to smoke at their workplace they will progressively reduce the cigarettes they used to smoke. Moreover, if they cannot have so many pauses in order to smoke they will spend more time working and this will result in more benefits for the company. The most controversial part of this law is its application in bars and restaurants. The owners of these bussinesses are given the opportunity to choose whether they want them to be smoking or non-smoking places. It is not a good idea because this way, non-smokers would not free to go to anywhere they want since their health would continue to be damaged. Furthermore, the workers of these places would still suffer the negative consequences of breathing the smoke of the customers. Smokers should be more tolerant and they should obey the law. If they complain against it they are just showing their selfishness and their lack of respect for non-smokers health. They should not feel persecuted because the law is not against them and their freedom but in defence of non-smokers rights and public health. They should consider it as an opportunity to start a healthier life with new habits rather than an attack to their rights.
I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because all people of both sexes have the same rights. Marriage is a union of two people who love each other, independently of the sex. Spanish government has passed this year a new law allowing the marriage between persons of the same sex. Not so many years ago homosexuals are considered to be ill persons, mainly by the Church who considered that this kind of relation is unnatural; and ununderstanding. They think that marriage is the union between a woman and a man who love each other, but nowadays, fortunately people that thinks in this way are lesser and lesser. Nowadays there are a lot of politicians and famous people that are in favour of marriages between persons of the same sex. Spain is one of the big amount of countries, such as Holand that passes a law like this and the amount of countries that join this cause are bigger and bigger. The Church are against this law. They considered that homosexual marriages should not be allowed because are unnatural, and they want the government to avoid this law by doing manifestations constantly. Nowadays there are a lot of associations that supports this idea of the church. I think that there are archaic ideas because all people have the same rights independently of their sexual oritentation. I don't know any reason why this kind of marriages should be banned. It is as if homosexual people want to ban heterosexual marriages. I think that it is absurd because people can do what they want and their sexual orientation should not interphere in their life. Fortunately we are in the XXI century and homosexual people are not persecuted and punished like in ancient times and they can do what they want. It's true that nowadays some people continue to discriminate homosexual people at time of chosing a job. Thanks to the growth of society, mentally speaking, they have the same rights that heterosexual, because the are normal people in spite of the thoughts of the Church and its followers. I am totally in favour of homosexual marriages because I think that all people have the same rights and a person can't determine what other person have to do because we don't have any power in other's decisions. All people have same rights.
From the beginning of this year, a law which allows the marriage of persons of the same sex was passed. Firstly, this law causes certain problems, specially in the religious atmosphere since it is difficult for many people to accept it. But, nowadays, it seems that people are starting to accept it, although with the exception of some institutions such as the Church, which already thinks that the marriage among persons of the same sex is unnatural. Love is a natural right of which each person should enjoy and for this reason any way of considering it should be respected since homosexual people can love in the same way that heterosexual people. So, the question of marriage among these peope should not mean a problem for the rest of society. Some arguments against this issue are the problem of having children or taking care of them because people who disagree with this kind of marriage say that they are not able to take care of them as an heterosexual partner. Today, there is a growth in the number of parents who don't take care of their children as they should and among these partners, there are not any cases for the moment in which the parents are homosexual. So, before banning these people the right of having children, we should stop to think about this question and to analise seriously the real reasons why people disagree with these homosexual marriages, that is, what are their real prejuices.

Nowadays, the choice of entering or not in the University is less important for people finishing Secondary School. Other choices are shown. However, those people who want to become part of the University world have to face an entrance examination. Sometimes, it is not an effective and fair system. People who defend the entrance examination affirm that it is important to show a common knowledge on basic subjects such as History, Grammar or Maths. In this sense, entrance examinations system provides students in general with a solid base of culture, and they are obliged to study those subjects during the last year at Secondary School. Besides, it is not a matter of obliging students to deal with subjects that they don't like, because they leave the chance to choose an 'especialised' like of study: Maths, Biology... or Latin, Art, Philosophy... which will be presented as examns in university entrance examinations. On the other hand, we find defenders of the opposite option who support themselves saying that those common subjects are not linked to future degrees which the student wants to choose. For instance, a person who wants to study Biology is obliged to do an examn on Philosophy or History (as they are compulsory subjects in university entrance examinations). Those subjects are not a basic element on their future degree. Thus, people defending a non-entrance examination system prefer an examination at a different level, this is, an entrance examination for a certain faculty or degree which implies necessary and basic sujects for the future degree of the student. Moreover, it is a matter of fact that the entrance examination mark is not the final mark required but just a minimun part. This mark is linked to the one got at Secondary School, so, it is not as objective as it seems to be. In a European fram, we should adapt and adopt foreign systems which do work and with which people are satisfied. It is not a matter of advantages and disadvantages, it is a matter of reaching the highest level in educational matters to form workers who show competitiveness and who are able to be equals as our European neighbours.
Nowadays, our government considers illegal smoking in public places since the tobacco can be very damaging for our health. I think that this question is obvious for us. Nevertheless, people will not stop smoking although this measure is in force. Instead of prohibiting this habit, government should improve the slogans anti-tobacco which isn’t good at all. For example, when you buy a packet and you see the slogan, you don’t throw it. In my opinion, slogans like “Smoking can kill “ shouldn’t be put in packets but in public places, magazines or in the streets. Other question that I would change could be the prohibition of smoking in restaurants and bars. I think that all this public places should have two parts, one for smokers and the other one for no-smokers, because everybody has the same rights. With regard to the topic of the health, I think that each person knows what they do and it’s clear that the present slogans don’t affect to young people since we live the present and we don’t already think in the future. In conclusion, the government shouldn’t prohibit this habit in public places. In my opinion, persons should establish their own limits since people don’t like that others impose rules in their lifes.
To start with I’ll like to say that I’m not a smoker so, my point of view is going to be clear although I’ll try to express my opinion from the others (smokers) points of view. In one hand I think that the smoke is an action which is allowed in our society in spite of being proved that it’s unhealthy. People start smoking from early ages just because if you do that you think that you are an adult and it gives you independence and make you feel free. Our society leads you to smoke by showing some adverts on TV or in the street. Young people can see adults smoking everywhere so that they think it shouldn’t be a bad thing. On the other hand the Health Department is advising that more and more people are losing their lives because of smoking. They advise not to smoke but they don’t take any important decision in order to make it an illegal action. Everybody can by cigarrettes anywhere and although it’s illegal to buy it by people under eighteen, nobody asks for your identity in order to check your age. I think that it should be illegal to smoke in public places because in this way we will improve our health but I also think that if is allowed to smoke so there should be special closed places where people could smoke. The most important thing is to consider everybody’s rights and to be tolerant with others decisions having always into account that our health is the first thing to consider. I also think that doctors and all the society should help those people who want to give up smoking in order to stop this bad habit. The Health Department should spend more money helping smokers to give up smoking rather to spend such a lot of medicines to improve those illness caused by the effects of smoking. We should take as example other countries were it’s illegal to smoke in public places, they can’t do it and they run a normal life. Even if it’s going to be hard to make it work, people should get use to the idea and finally it could be possible to get it.