It had been proved by several medical researchers that smoking is dangerous both for active and passive smokers. For instance, doctors say that smoking is directly related with lung cancers and heart attacks, two of the most important death causes in Western Countries. And doctors say too that there’s a strong connection between conception problems like infertility or abortion and smoking. And we can continue looking for several more diseases because there’s a long list of them. Smokers justifies themselves saying that such diseases have a lot more to do with some chemical products added to preserve tobacco and the burnt of the paper used to wrap cigarettes than with tobacco itself. But, on the other hand, non-smokers consider that they have the right to ask the government for the prohibition of smoking, because of the dangers of tobacco. Under such perspective, it’s not only a matter of health, but also a matter of education, cleaness and tolerance with non-smokers. So why don’t the State banned tobacco selling? It would be a coherent measure, because tobacco illnesses costs a lot of money to our Public Health System. There’s one very important reason: more than the money the system “waste” in treatments of severe illnesses related with smoking, is the money the system “collects”. Tobacco (and spirits(1)) taxes are very important in the State Budget every year. Some time ago I read some very interesting opinions of a tobacconist that works in the business for twenty five years. And she was raised up selling tobacco (she inherited a shop from her parents). There’s a lot of changes when she began selling tobacco up till now. For instance, she considered that she sold a better tobacco when she began in the business than now, because tobacco has now more and more added substances and because of the –what she calls- “fashionable” light tobacco (I read somewhere that light tobacco has more chemical products added than “normal” tobacco). Obviously, she sells different kinds of tobacco and there’s a strong connection between the best sold tobacco trademarks, publicity and low prices(2). I think that we can’t say that if the Government increases tobacco prices, smokers are going to disappear. People from the U.K. explained to me that the rise of tobacco prices has a lot to do with the change of habits there. I heard that a lot of people in the U.K. that some years ago smoked cigarettes, now rolls their own cigarettes (with tobacco or with mild drugs, cheaper than tobacco). Another story is that there are some british people that earn their living coming to Spain in order to buy tobacco –because here is cheaper- and sell it in Britain. With all this information in mind, I consider that making smoking illegal isn’t the solution of “tobacco” problems. In Spain tobacco has a lot to do with social life: we smoke in pubs, cafes. And the Government campaigns against tobacco (for instance, with “unpleasant” messages at cigarettes boxes) are considered a sort of a joke by many heavy smokers, so I dare say that such campaign has no real and effective results. My own opinion about what smokers have to try is change a bit their habits as tobacco consumers. Perhaps could be useful for them to analyse when and where they used to smoke, in order to control their habit. So, I think that only personal and individual decisions could bring real change. If tobacco is something easy to find you can make up your mind and say if you want to buy a box or not. About tobacco being banned, we can’t forget that humans usually feel tempted by prohibited things (that so-called(3) illegal drugs(4) are a good example of what I try to say). About smoking in public places, I only think that both smokers and non-smokers have to adapt themselves. For me it’s obvious that with children around, pregnant women or people with lung diseases for instance, smokers have to avoid their habit. The other day I watched on television a chapter of “Friends”, that had a funny gag about smoking on your job place. One of the members of the gang was a heavy smoker. And he can’t smoke at his office. So he invented a system. He hid a cigarette in the drawer of his work table. He smoked once. He put the cigarette in the drawer, sprayed some air freshener in the office and something in his mouth for his tobacco bad breath. After two or three times repeating this action because of his addition, he finally made a mistake an put air freshener on his mouth and the product for the breath in the room. So the problem he had in his working place was how to smoke without being discovered, but not how to be a good workers. So perhaps banning tobacco could bring such a situation besides us. That’s why I don’t like the idea. And I’m not a heavy smoker. (1)Another “problematic” substances that in several countries like the States, some specific measures are held to control them and for instance you can’t take alcoholic drinks on the street (2)Low prices that perhaps means a lower quality of the product sold (3)I said so-called because it’s not difficult to find drugs in Spain, if you want to take them (4)Illegal drugs are related with several illneses, like AIDS. About 80% of people in jail are involved in drugs both as consumers or as drug dealers.
I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because I think it is a matter of love, not a matter of sex. It is also a right for the people, all people should have that option to get married If they want so. Most people think that a marriage is a union between two people of different sexes, man and woman, but it is only a union between two people. If love an respect exist, what is the importance of the sex? I think that most people who think that these marriages shold be banned should think about of love not about of sex, they should be more tolerant. On the other hand it is the question of rights. Appart from love reasons there is a legal reason. All people have the same rights and the fact should not change as far as marriage is concerned. For instance in a question of heritage, It is not important if you spend all your lifetime with your partner because if he or she dies and you are not married you do not receive anything from his or her heritage. From my point of view it is not a just situation because in heterosexual marriages the situation is different. Fortunately the situation is changing in Spain as far as legal terms is concerned but there is still people who thinks that these unions should be banned because they think that they are not real marriages, because it is not natural..., and silly things like these.
The society we live in nowadays is undergoing many changes in its composition and in its values. Many of such changes are not completely accepted by all people, and they are not well seen. This is the case of granting legal marriage and rights to persons of the same sex. It is my contention to defend the idea that homosexual couples must have the same rights as heterosexual ones to get married under the same conditions. One of the most recurrent argument against homosexual marriage is the one affecting religious ideas. Many people justifies their disagreement appealing to religious statements such as the natural conception of marriage as union between a man and a woman, and therefore, denying the possibility of a union between two persons of the same sex. However, in a country such as Spain, declared aconfessional, no religious ideals and conceptions should interfear in legal affairs. On the other hand, a democratic state must grant the same legal rights to any individual independently from their race, sex, social or sexual condition. In this sense, prohibiting homosexual marriage is against the constitutional law itself. It is argued that one of the basic problems that granting homosexual marriages brings, is that related to the adoption of children. According to this argument, children belonging to a homosexual family don't develope in the same way as other children, since they would have to face difficult situations at school with children belonging to heterosexual families. Besides, these children are supossed to need the figure of both a mother and a father. However, it is not the first time that the traditional family changes its structure. Monoparental families have been increasing during the last decades. As a consequence of this, many children have been brought up without the figure of a father or a mother. The other part of this last argument would be that fact that adopted children would be really happy and well treated because they would be much desired by their adoptive parents. Of course, all adoptive parents desire a children to come but homosexual couples have more difficulties, as it would be a more figured out decision. As far as I am concerned, it is a basic necessity for society to admit and cohexist with the different values arising everyday. It is the only way to keep democratic ideas alive.
I think that the controversy created in Spanish society has not really has to do to what it actually means. Spanish drivers are used to do whatever they want when driving, and that is the point that this is the matter that worries them. What this law truly implies is that we drivers must be aware of the danger we are exposed to when we drive and that we must be extremely careful. This matter should not be neither a strage thing nor an unsual behaviour, because it deals with our safety, and that of the other drivers. This behaviour of us drivers should be adopted and learned not from the first time we drive (what in many cases is not a Driving Schools but at home, another feature of our imprudent conduct) but from the first time that we are aware that we are social beings, and we must behave in that way when driving. That system of penalty points that, as usual arrives too late to our country has not been created in order to punish, but in order to prevent more deads. We are so fatalistic that we only mind the fact of being removed our points, but that only happens when we have an unconcious and a passive attitude in our beautiful and powerful cars. But we do not care if points have been removed because we did not wear the safety belt, what is really sad and desperating, because this is an automatic action we should make as soon as we get into the car. I say once again that it is very sad not to wear it because it really saves lifes, and the DGT does not make controls in order to incommodate drivers and just for getting money, but the really do it for our own benefit. Besides, there is the matter of alcohol. Should it be allowed to drive when we have drunk it? My personal answer to this question is no, we should not. Alcohol minimize our abilities and our capacity of perception of reality, what makes us uncapable of driving properly and correctly and, of course, safety. Finally, I must say that I find it a bit unfair with learning drivers, because it is more strict with us than with the other drivers. Although I understand they are more experienced than us, it must also be said that they do not normally respect the law and they are more uncared. I think that those drivers with more than a determinate experience of many years should have to pass periodic exams in order to determine their capacities and abilities and their remembering the law. I think that we must be totally concious of the danger of driving when we do not do it properly. In what referres to me, I only have to pass my driving exam next Monday.
Love is a universal feeling; it is something that everybody knows. The heart sometimes leads people to fall in love with each other, regarless sex. From a biological point of view, this kind of relationship may be understood as unnatural, I mean in the sense of being completely impossible to gave birth a new life. But this fact is no more a problem itself since adoption exists as well as scientific advances, such as fecundation in-vitro, which allows two women or two men becoming parents, as if the "normal" or expected ones. It is perhaps from the religious point of view that people are more reluctant to accept this kind of relationship. There have been always many constrictions in this respect due to the conservative Church... Law has changed a lot in the last years. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex is gradually losing its "grotesque" connotations. But, things have already to change much more. Since I am heterosexual, I don't really understand why or how persons of the same sex feel so, but I don't judge or condem them. And, why not? If they are in love, they should do it.
I am totally in favour the new driving law because I consider that the idea of losing their licenses would make drivers be more careful when being at the road. It seems that the only way to have them controlled is by means of threatening them wiht the loss of their rights. However, I consider that some penalties are not as hard as they should be. The simple fact of being caught drunk while driving should be enough to lose all the points of the license because this action actually implies a risk both for the driver and for the rest of the citizens. Moreover, I think that drunk drivers who hurt or kill other people should be sent to prison as a punishment for their crimes. This new driving law seems to be effective at least when the amount of accidents is concerned. People seem to be more aware now of the fact that exceeding the speed allowed is dangerous and can have fatal consequences. However, one may wonder if people drive more carefully because they have realized that the car is a dangerous weapon or just to avoid losing points of their licenses and being fined. If the reason was the lattest, it would mean that we have learned nothing, that we do not care about our security or about the others', that we have not discovered yet that our crazy actions can destroy our lives or, even worse, other people's lives. What we should wonder then, if this is the case, is if the education we are receiving is the one we should receive. It seems that we only react when we fear we can lose money or something we really want or need. And this is a direct consequence of the type of materialistic society we have created. We do not care about other people, the question is not if you could have killed another person but the points you are going to lose and the amount of money you will have to pay. Some people even question if the points penalty is too excessive for the action they have comitted, what gives a clear idea of the fact that we do not give to our imprudences at the road the importance we should. By making the law harder we will reduce the amount of accidents even though if it only is by means of a threat. The real success will be when people drive carefully because of their own convinction, not because of their fear to a fine.