In my opinion, I think the question is not if “money is the root of all evil”, because obviously money is necessary for living, but I think that the matter is just like about who has the “Money”. I mean, if you look at the socio-economic situation of the world you can see that the most of the resources and the access to information belong or are ruled and controlles by a very little part of human beings, whose are living in the so-called 1rst World, while the rest of humanity must live with the minimum for surviving. So, I think that is not an acceptable situation. We are, in a certain way, responsible of this situation, and we have to work very hard if we want to change something and we also have to try that those less-favorablished countries and people could live with dignity and improve their expectatives.
I am a 24 year-old woman and ever since I was born (well, perhaps ever since I was a kid) I was conscious that money was extremely important. It means it all to some people. Without money you are nothing in this society. Every time I turn on my televion set and I switch on the news, all I find are wars, murders, thievery, exploitation, discrimination…I suppose there are several reasons for these horrible affairs and issues, but all this evil shares a common root which is money. If money did not exist, this world would probably be a better place. Not perfect, perhaps, but many of our problems would disappear. The importance humankind gives to money is outrageous. We are losing our moarl. We could rather have mor cents in our pocket than help poor people and beggars who plead on sidewalks and streets. People are dying of hunger and all we worry about is having a larger car or a better music equipment.
Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. This “problem” has many consequences. When students leave university and they decided to look for a job they find many difficulties. These students know theoric question, they can give exact definitions about a great number of terms. But they are not able of making some practices such as, explain a theme or a subject to a child or do all the things that they know theoretically. Most people think that they have a university degree and they don’t know nothing. They are uncaple of developing simple activities. They associate their future with darkness. In fact, in some occasions they think that even a baker is more prepare than they for the real world. A world in which you have to look for a job, and in this situation, another problem is: Where can I go for finding a job? Actually, a young boy finishes his degree and the first thing or idea that appears in his mind is now, what? All students have many questions and few answer. And, of course, they also feel fear because they are secure that they are not prepared for develop a job. How can a “new” doctor open a body of a human if he has never do it? One of the most difficult things is to find answers for all these questions.
People spend most part of their lifes preparing to become a future professional. Getting an Uiversity degree is a long process in which they spend a lot of time and effort. In spite of all their effort, after finishing their degree they feel as if they had not learnt all they wanted. Degrees are focused on introducing students in a lot of new topics, but they don’t really value if this topic would be useful once they start working. There is no point on spending five years studying something which will not have any practical purpose. Most teachers are only worried in expalining all the topics, but they do not try to apply them to real life, so that these topics stop being duperficial. By doing this they could catch students attention and they would help them to develop in real world. Subjects must be applied to everyday life in order to understood easily. Learning a lot is not so important as to understand what you learn. Learning cannot consist only on theory but also on practice. Learning five hundred pages by heart is not useful as learning a half of them and spending the rest of time trying to apply them to real world. Appart from this, it is easier learning and studying when you had previously made a lot of practice about the topic. Some teachers should think about waht few things their students have learnt of all the lot of things they have said. Learning is a difficult process which should be taken seriously. It is not something you do without expecting to receive something. Students want to learn how to use their knowledge in future.
Nowadays most universities present an extremely theoretical structure in their main subjects. This is the situation of university degrees related to science and also to humanistic or letters. In the particular case of philology our subjects result too theoretical and the practical part is forgotten in most cases. To reach good marks is very important but in may cases this is the only thing we are focused on in our studies and we are not aware that we have only adquired theoretical knowledge. It is necessary to prepare students to their future but not only from a theoretical point of view. Different real situations should be exposed in our lessons, situations which we will have to face up after finish our studies. This is perhaps more visible in those studies related to science. For instance in Medicine, Psychology... it is essential to practice all that students have learnt in University. Because of this lack of practical preparation it is not strange to see situations which surprise us when we find people who do not know how to do their job. To sum up it can be said that although theory is important, practice should be given more importance.
Nowadays we can observe that most of the university degrees are theoretical. But what must be a degree and, generally, the education? It must be only a source knoledge more or less usefull, a weapon for the students and future workers to be prepared to enter in the real world? In my point of view, degrees have to be tools to enter in the society. The first argument I want to mention in favour of the practice is that, although there is no doubt that theoretical lectures are important, we have to consider the relevance of the practical ones too. In fact, as I have said before, in any job you can may employes will ask for experience, and so, practice. On the other hand, another educati/cional argument is that joining the theory with the practice would turn classes less boring and the subject would be more understandable. Degree’s programs need a reform and I don’t know why politians involved in education don’t change it. If we want a future generation prepared to real world we have to change degrees.