Smoking in public places should be illegal. First at all because people that do not smoke have to breathe the unhealthy air. If I am travelling in a public transport I do not have to "smoke" because of one person. Old people and children are exposed to that air even they do not want to. Nowadays, there are several laws that forbid smoking in public places in general, but smokers have special places where they can smoke. The unhealthy air provoked by tobacco expands all over the room, if you are in a restaurant, or in a public transport, despite of being smoking in that special place. In a normal life, living in a city, you have to breathe unhealthy air everyday. That is, cars, factories or even our houses produce a lot of contaminated air. If we smoke we produce an extra contaminated air that goes directly to our lungs; and also to the rest of people around us. I want to say that it is unfair to non-smokers. If I choose the option that I do not want to smoke; why I have to breathe other's smoke? It is scientifically demonstrated that non-smokers in contact with smokers, in a period of a year, are smoking also the same. I mean, in that faculty I am smoking aroung three cigarettes a day, even I do not smoke. Why if I do not smoke I have to suffer the same consequences? Going on with science, a lot of people began to cof in contact with that air. It is perjudicial for that people. There are specific places wher smoking is allowed, but smokers do not respect that, and go on smoking in all the faculty. During the breaks you can see a great smoke cloud in front of the rooms, or in the hall. So, I think that of that people do not respect us, we do not have to respect them, and they have to be forbidden; they do not have the right to smoke in public places if they do not respect our rights.
From my point of view, I think that nowadays to have an university degree is very important in the sense that you could more offers in the future in order to gain a job but some degrees prepare you more than others in this sense. On the one hand, theoretical university degrees have advantages in the sense that you learn a lot, for example, in this it is essential to know the history and culture of English speaking countries and also the evolution of English language because maybe a day you could travel to London or another city and you could adapt better to its kind of life if you know how they life. On the other hand, I think that theoretical university degrees have disadvantages in the sense that there should be more hours of practices and it also could be small trips to abroad during the summer because the relationship with native speakers of different countries is important because you should accustom to hear different accents. Another disadvantage, from my point of view is that pupils have not a subject in which you can learn to apply English to another ways, excluding learning because there is a subject based on this, but this should be more than one year. What I want to say is that English language can be applied to other matters such as economics, so you could be work in a company. Regarding theoretical university degrees are of very little value, I don't think so, because if you are going to give an English class you can be as good as the math's teacher although he had a lot of practical classes and subjects in his degree. To sum up, I think that learning methods could be better in theoretical university degrees, but the important is that you have a good knowledge of your (especialidad) and when you finish your degree you can also learn how to apply these knowleges to your life, because I think that this is also our task.
In my opinion, smoking in public places must be illegal, because people who smoke annoy the other people that breath their fog and it is so pernicious for the smokers and the people who don't. So many years ago, the laws allowed to smoke in all the places. For example, a passenger in a coach could take a cigarrette and smoke it. This act, disturbed the other passengers that don't have this habit and it provoqued a really condition in the air that people breath. Afortunately, smoking in public places like planes, trains (only in non-smoker wagon), supermarkets, cinemas, educational places, and all the spaces that are closed. But there is an exception to the bares, cafeterias and discos that allow to smoke. I think that if is not allowed to do in a closed space, why is permitted to this places? But I think that the tobacco must be illegal, because it creates addiction and it destroys people inside of them. Their plugs are contaminated and people suffer from many diseases. And this is the reason because the tobacco is so expensive, so it has many taxes. All of the world is against the tobacco, because governements don't allow to advertise tobacco products on the television or in magazines and tobacco companies are crazy to publish their products to sell more. The reason why is not allowed is connected to the kids and young people who smoke very early in their lifes and it provoques cancer in their plugs (if they continue to smoke) or in other organ. If there no exist tobacco in the world people would life more time and all of diseases provoqued by it would erradicate. There wouldn't be problems to legalize or illegalize this and so on. In summary, we have the first step to illegalize the tobacco at all, but in some places it is allowd and from my own, I suffer a lot with this contaminated air and my eyes suffer too. So, it is very positive to have a law that protects non-smokers people that suffer from the others that in many cases don't respect us.