I believe that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because although these people have a different sexual option, which is different which the society has by normal, the heterosexuality, must have the same right because they are also human beings, simply that their sexual option is another. In my opinion this society tries to go of modern but to the hour of legalicing or be allow this type of things, that go more far than the habitual things, it always find something to delay or bury in the bottom of a hole. If this society is really modern and tolerant in these cases wouldn't think so and would act faster, like this do in other situations. Why so polemic by a pair of papers? The wedding, really, are only a pair of papers that say that you are married. Why say no to this petition? The homosexuals are people so normal, or more, that the heterosexuals, and I think that is a silly thing that only by this pact these people can not be happy and have to feel them more aparted by the society, that it believes itself modern.
From my point of view, I think this is a good topic to debate because it's a contemporaneous topic nowadays. About this theme many people have several positions with their respective reasons: On the one hand lots of people think that two persons with the same sex should not get marriage because it's amoral, not natural and atypical. They think it's impossible to be in love between them because they are two men or two women, so it's impossible to get love in that way. On the other hand, and I am included in this position, many people think that two persons of the same sex can be happy perfectly and they have the same rights and values in the same way that heterosexual people. So, if they want to get marriage or to have children, they can get the same posibilities than heterosexual ones. Unfortunately many people in our society are very intolerant each other; the respect to other people would be another interesting topic to debate, but in my way these two topics are very closed. The question is: who is more important that another one? Who has the power to order his/her thoughts? Does anybody seem to God? I think the answer is that if somebody believes that she or he is the most important above the rest of human beings and the society might obey his/her orders... in this case we will find the origin of the problem. People who think superior to another, he will never respect different thoughts, different positions. That kind of people believe that homosexual people are a mixture of a bad education or a bad personality or another nonsense opinions. When you are young, you like girls at school if you are a boy because that is the "obligation". If you are a boy and you like another boy, you get to be a strange person, and it's the society that apart thse ones in that way. In conclusion, they are not homosexual people who feel lonely, it's the society, the big mass of society who does it. In my opinion people with the same sex has exactly the same importance than heterosexual people, so if they want to get marriage, it's perfect.
The question, in my opinion, should be: Why the marriage of persons of the same sex is not allowed? I don't understand why couples of the same sex have more rights than couples of different sex. The marriage is an agreement between two persons, and I think these persons must have the same rights if they are two men, two women or one man and one woman. Nowadays, I think that many people in the spanish society think in homosexual weddings as something normal. Actually, the debate is at the street: politicians, journalists... are always on television discussing about this. The main problem seems to be the adoption: "Is an homosexual couple allowed to adopt children?" This could be a right for a couple formed by a man and a woman but if the couple is formed by two men or two women the thing seems to be more complicated. In my opinion, the important here is not the couple, is not the "father", is not the "mother"; the important here is the child. The important here are the child's rights.