
In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal because people that don't smoke haven't rights in these places. People that don't smoke never can be in a place where people don't smoke while smoking people have places for smoke (their hauses, their cars, outside, etc.) No smoking people have healthy problems because people that smoke is in everywhere smoking without think about heath of those people. I think that smoking in public places should be prohibited as soon as well because people don't have to breath the mog of this unsensitive smoking people. People that don't smoke only wants that their rights was preserved because if smoking people continue smoking where they want, in fifty years many people will be ill and then it will be too late to try to modifie the activities of smoking people. So smoking in public places have to be changed and then no smoking people is going to have rights in this case, because nowadays only smoking people have rights.
What's marriage?? The union of two people in which love is the base of everything, and it's also a contract, a paper where a couple signs to be registrated as a couple. At that point, we must think about the two parts, who says that one of them must be a woman and the other a man? and what about love?? and respect?? and sharing things?? and helping each other?? I think it doesn't matter what sex is one person, the important thing is that they share the same feelings and both are humans. Nobody must have the power to establish if you can or not get married with somebody you love, musn't they?? This question is also related to the fact of having children, because two men can't have a baby biologically and the same for women, but there are others methods to be parents, adoption, for example is a good solution I think, but here a problem appears: society!! Society could be very cruel with a boy that has two mothers, and maybe this could affect the child; so although I agree with all types of marriages, I consider that first of all, people should change their minds, and accept that happiness has to be accesible for everybody, no matter who they love or they feel.
I'm a smoker, and I think that we should respect to the people who don't smoke because it is bad for their wealth and we don't have any reason for disturb them with the smoke and the smell of our cigarrettes. Although, I disagree with the idea of making smoking illegal, because we are not criminals, we pay a lot of money in taxes each time we buy a cigarrettes' packet and we are responsibles of our wealth. On the other hand, I think that the idea of separate spaces for smokers and no-smokers in public places is good. But appropiate spaces, no little places that seem boxes or jails where the smokers appear as displaced people. Nowadays, the idea of this little boxes is becoming a reality, but is unfair, because I believe in the idea of the mutual respect. Appropiate spaces for smokers and no-smokers is a right, and this task is reponsability of the Govern because it is earning a lot of money with tobacco's taxes. The Govern is increasing this taxes continuously and is not supporting good publicity for prevent to the childs and teenagers from the dangers of smoking. This task is not only TV announces. We have to begin from schools, making the childs know the consequences and the risks of this habit with chats, videos, photos, etc. But this is not a task only for teachers. Parents, uncles, friends... all us have to cooperate (smokers included) in the task of prevent our childs explaining to them the consequences. Illegalicy will not repair nothing because smokers are going to continue with their habit while other people surely will become rich exploiting this business illegaly. I think that this reason is enough. Moreover, I'm sure that the Govern will never want to lose all the money of the tobacco's taxes because petrol is expensive enough. Don't you think?