Why not? Why the marriage of persons of the same sex shouldn't be allowed? In my opinion I can't find a real reason to forbid this kind of marriages. I think that the most important reason to get married with someone is that you are really in love with that person, and ... can't gays be in love? I think that we are all persons and we all have the right to fall in love, to cry, to laught ... haven't they? Probably, if people who write the laws were gays they can understand gays more. But I think it is simple, if you are in love with somebody and you want to share your life with him or her there are no problems in the fact that there is a man, a woman or even your brother or sister. Do they disturb you? It doesn't matter for me if my neighbour has a boyfriend, a girlfriend or if he or she lives alone with his/her cat. Well, in my opinion the solution is to educate people since they are children because you never know if your son or daughter will be gay. And if he or she will ... won't you love him or her?
I've have chosen option 1. I think it's a good method to stop tobacco's consume. Moreover, people who don't smoke don't have to be perjudicated because of the smoke of the others. If you want to smoke you should do it alone or with other smokers, this is my opinion. You shouldn't disturb other people, or children who don't smoke. They don't have to breath the smoke and perjudicate their health only because of the fact that you need or you want to smoke a cigarrette. Smoking is very unhealthy, it can cause cancer or other sickness, if you don't mind to take one of this illness think in the rest of the people, probably they don't want to be sick neither to perjudicate their lungs. Smoking isn't good at all: it's unhealthy, it smells really bad; the smoke disturb people; your fingers and teeth became yellow and finally it's very difficult to give up. On the other hand, from the point of view of a smoker, it would be a pain in the neck. It would really disturb me to can't smoke a cigarrette while I'm drinking a coffee or a coke, or after have lunch.
According to my point of view, the marriage between people of the same sex could be allowed, but in my opinion a marriage of the same sex isn't the same than a marriage between people of the different sex. I'm not racist, but I think that women and men are neccesary both of them in a relation of couple and over all in a marriage.I spoke about this theme with some friends and always it's the same conclusion. For me, two persons of the same sex can do the same things than two persons of the different sex sometimes. For instance, they can do the same works in house but they cannot educate children by the same way than a couple of the different sex. But this is only in my opinion, I respect other opinions. I think that a mother teachs different things than a father and the oposite. A mother is more comprensive and sentimental for me in some cases, and a father is more objective, he's sentimental too but he doesn't question for your personal problems. I think than a father tries to give you a good education and a mother helps you in your personal problems and both of them are neccesary for me.