First of all, nowadays the marriage of persons of the same sex is a situation very complicated in these days. We have many points of view in our country. On one hand, there are many persons who are living this situation. They are persons like all the world but they like same sex. Here we have a problem why they have not the same rights? Our society is not prepared for differents forms of life. The society and values are traditionals. But people are helping to a new change. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex must be allowed. The time is go on and it is another point of view about marriage. Men and women have right to choosing the form of life and the union who they decide. On the other hand, there is an opposition enough hard in our society. In many opinions this class of marriage is not good. For example, a very important opposition is the church. Because church consider traditional values of marriage. Marriage between man and woman for the procreation. Here is another problem: the procreation. The marriage of persons of the same sex cannot procreate. But we have one possibility: the adoption of children. Finally, I think that this marriage is a new situation presented in nowadays. It is a normal marriage with a little change: persons of the same sex and why not?
Smoking in public places should be illegal. It is very naughty to stay in a place where there are a lot of people smoking and you don’t like smoke. For instance, when you go out at night and in a pub with a lot of people there is somebody smoking. It could be very dangerous. Also, when you are in a caffee with some friends and there is somebody smoking your clothes smell horrible. For all these reasons, I think that smoking in public places should be banned. However, I think that smoking in the street would be legal. When I say public places I mean in pubs, caffees, shops, etc. I consider these places as close places. The street is an open place and it is different. Nowadays, people know that smoking is very dangerous. It could cause cancer and other illness. It is a really thing that a lot of people die as a consequence of the tobacco. People start to smoke when they are very young. They think that it is very cool, but they never think about the consequences. It is very important to explain young people the danger of smoke. Moreover, it is important to reduce places where it is allowed to smoke because people who don’t smoke have the right to be without the horrible smell of tobacco.
Smoking is considered as a free action so anyone is also free t do it, although the majority of our population smoke, there are also a lot of people who don’t like fire’s cigarette. As a consequence of this situation I see very reasonable that a series of rules have been created for smokers. However I believe that it’s extremely “hard” for this people (I’m not a smoker) that smoking in public places was considered an illegal action. From my point of view people should find an intermediate situation by means both “kind of people”, that is to say, smokers and non-smokers, are well in public places without converting smoking in an illegal action. So I think there can be many solutions. For instance in all public places like bars, pubs ... there should be places for smokers and places for no-smokers (the middle of the public place for one of them and the other for the others). In many sites this places have been already created but not all of them. A very hard and real situation is that nowadays young people start to smoke at 12 or 13 years old so they obviously want to smoke in schools and a good solution should be, if it’s necessary, put security guards to control them. It’s very extreme however I think that the solutions have to be very hard because it isn’t enough the photographs or hard sentences which appear in the “cigarette boxes”.