I think that smoking should be illegal in public places, because I am a non-smoking person, and I don’t have to breath other people’s smoke. I’m not against smoking people, but there should be a law which regularized the smoking areas. There are some places, where smoking is already illegal, such as public transports (bus, plane, train), and other installations such as restaurants or hotels, which have some special areas for smokers. Smoking became a dangerous and bad habit among young people, who already start smoking at an early age, thirteen years or even earlier, which has very bad consequences for their health. One of the reasons why they start smoking is that they want to imitate one of their older friends, who is a smoker, too. They also think that if they smoke they are more popular among their classmates, or that smoking will help them to find a boyfriend or girlfriend. Moreover, they don’t realize causes very bad illnesses, such as deterioring their lungs, or even worst, causing cancer. Most of my friends are smokers, and it annoyes me a lot when we are in a public place and the whole smoke comes into my lungs. I tryed to convince them of stopping smoking, but it had very little effect on them. I heard that the Government was going to prohibit smoking in public places within two or three years. Well, smoking is something really awful, but the only positive thing you can find in smoking is the shares in a smoking enterprise in the stock-market, which are surely to go up.
First of all, we need to see the person and not the sexual condition of everyone. If two persons are falling in love and they want to be a formal couple and sign a contract to be legal their relationship, is perfectly normal. Don’t mind if the sex of the couple are the same, isn’t important, the only important condition in the relationship is that they love each other and not think the sex. We could think something that the situation was diferent: the marriage between persons of diferent sex was the extrange thing, and the normal situation was the marriage between persons of the same sex, think about if this persons would permit the marriage. It’s dificcult to understand that if two persons are falling in love to each other, why not to get marriage?, it’s only a paper, but it’s a paper with a lot of meaning, a paper that heterosexuals don’t give the value, because is something that always be there, and with the pass of the years, this situation would be arrive to be normal for everyone. They don’t be surrender because if women had surrender the last century, nowadays we can’t vote. The real problem is that the persons that controlle the country are old peole, and they were educated in a strict education and they think that this is “contra-natura”, and they don’t see the person, only the sex of the person xx, for young people this is completly normal, because the education is more open and tolerant but an important point of view is the actitud of our parents, if they think that their education was correct, they will teach to their children that this is a horrible thing, but in the other way, if they know that they live in a strict period they try to change the bad influences and educated their descendences in a more tolerant world and to allowe that everybody can be happy and live their lifes in the way that they choose. We will fight for our rights and superate the prejudges because later on it will be produce more dificcult situations.
Smoking is an addition that affects many people in the world. In my opinion smokers should respect the people who don’t smoke, but this is very difficult to get without laws. I think that is necesary to get free of tobacco places like busses, trains or other little closed spaces because people that don’t smoke can be unconfortable breathing the tobbaco smoke. On the other hand we have places such as cafeteries, pubs, halls of public buildings... that I think must allow to smoke, unless they are very little. Tabbaquism is a big problem in the world, there is a lot of people in each village that smoke, so it is difficult to forbide them smoking in some public places. I think that one option could be to destinate some spaces specifically to this, for example, in a big company workers must stay many hours at the place of work, if they are smokers they need to smoke, the problem is that there are other workers that don’t smoke and don’t like the smell of the tobbaco. There should be a room specifically dedicated to these smokers. The problem of this decision is that no smokers can complain because smokers have little breaks each time that they want to smoke a cigarrette, but this have a very difficult solution. In conclusion I think that smokers must take care of the comfortability of the people that don’t have this habbit and don’t smoke in places in which it may be disliked.