My opinion about university degrees is very clear: I think that, although there are some exceptions, they don't prepare students to face a new life, together with its problems. University is a world apart from real world. We learn and we work, but always knowing that here we have limits. Our work is theoretical, maybe we are learning very useful things to the future (I hope so) but I think that it is not enough. We need much more, much more practice and specialisation. Theory is useful just if we are capable of aplying it to a work, and I feel that in the university this fact is quite forgotten. At least this is my opinion as far as my career is concerned, because although I am aware of all interesting things I am learning, when I think of future, I don't see myself as a good and complete profesional. Far from that, sometimes I feel that I would need more time to finish my career and being comfortable at my knowledge. Even though, I think that the time is not the problem here. To me, the solution should begin with a reformation of the educative system, not only in university, but also in school and highschool, with a more varied, complete and practical teaching, because maybe the level we actually have in university is the result of former errors. And, of course, a reformation on university, with a more profesional teaching, thinking of future, because students can't be five or six or even more years studying a career and, when they finish it, they can't work because they are not ready, this is a loss of time, money and mind. Even though, I'm not saying at all that university degrees are not useful. I think they prepare us as persons and they give us a global education, but maybe we would need a more specific one.
In my opinion, the most of the university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. There is a small number of practical classes to the students. I'm studying English filology. This is my 3rd year and I only have one class in which we must talk, once a week. I think that it is a very small time. In my case,talk in english is one of the most important things; and, if you can't go to the countries in which the english is the native tongue, you can't learn it. If you want to learn it, you must look for it in other places. I know that a filology is more than learn a language, but I think that we need some more practical classes. In our studies' programme, there's a lot of literature subjects and less of language. You won't be a great specialist in filology, if you do not know the language well. I'm talking about my case, because it is the best I know; but, in my opinion, it is the same in other studies. Nowadays, the university makes its center on the theoretical classes, and leaves the practical. This is something which is reflected when you look for a job. In other studies,not the university, there is more practice, so when that person looks for a job, it is probably that he or she can work on it. When you have not practical classes, you must work only on what you have studied. In my case, if I would want to work on translation; maybe I couldn't, because there will be another persons who have studied that, so they've got preference. If I'm studying english filology, people can suppose that I talk in english very well; but not, so I couldn't work like a translator. If my work depends on my practical classes, I could only work like an english teacher, maybe. But, if I don't want to work like a teacher, what can I do?I have to look for my own classes. So,I think the number of practical classes are not enough; and we are not prepared for the real world.
At the begining the first question is a little difficult to talk about it because the problem of smoking is in each person, and each one is aware to do what he or she wants. In my view smoking in public places should be illegal due to differeent things: on the one hand smoking is a very bad habit which hurts a lot our health and it can become a dangerous drug. However every time there are more people who smoke and they dont think about the consecuences that smoking has to. Furthermore I believe that people really unknow the true place where they are coming into and of which going out is almost impossible. On the other hand there are some people who can’t stand the smell of tobacco, and as it’s very dangerous for health, people who smoke shouldn’t do it in public places, but it’s a rule with which smokers don’t agree. Athough smoking is a very important problem in our society, we can’t unfortunately do anything because, furthermore, it’s an habit which is very difficult to leave it and a lot of persons aren’t able to get it. I know that it’s almost impossible to change the view of a smoker, but I hope among all people we will get to help people who want to leave smoking. But for this it’s necessary to try it, as least.