I think that when I get my degree in english Philology, I will know a lot of things that won’t help me at all either in my laboral life or in my normal life. Some people, when they finish their degree know a lot of practical things (for example, how to control certain machines of industry, or computers). This practical things can help them in their laboral life and make them usefull members of our so call modern society. But when students of Philology yet their degree what do they know? A lot of things about sintactic analisys that I think are usefull and stupid. Well, when we finish our degree we also know something about history and literature, and for me this is an important knowledge, because in my opinion, in order to understand the present is a good thing to know the past. Well, we know about literature and history, and also we should know how to speak english (but if you finish English Philology and you haven’t stayed abroad you won’t know english) but, what can we do with this knowledge, for example, teach somebody what we know, for the want of money. I think education is a lie and the title that we get is only one way of classify us and make us more competitive.
I really think that most university degrees are theorical and do not prepare students for the real world. When I started to study English Philology at the university, what I really surprised me was that the level of “English Language” was very low. I realized that in high school, I had more level of English language, in vocabulary for example. I think that at university is important a good base of grammar, that is tought at high school, but on another hand, I think that at university, we have to study morphology (theorical and practical terms), phonetics and phonology, syntax, history, literature ... many theorical knowledges, but What’s wrong with Orality? I think that the most important thing of leaning a language is Orality, speaking. The aim of languages in the world is communication. For communicating us, we need grammar, but not only grammar, we need more practise on Speaking. For becoming in good Phylologists, we need know some basic notions of the culture of the country, because in the different languages there are some terms, words that only the people of that country says, and this is very important. I think that students of university know about grammar but no so much about these words or sentences characteristics of the country. In my opinion and to sum up, I think that the big aim of the English language teachers must be to teach many vocabulary (formal and colloquial) and Speaking, so the student will be more prepared.
In my opinion, I think that tobacco is very bad for all the people, people who smokeand people who receivethe smoke. The smokers don’t really feel all the bad elements that there are in a cigarrette at the moment that they introduce it in them months and absorve the smoke, but years later they feel the bad consecuences: they have the teeth yellow, them throught are very perjudicated, them laugs are full of smoke, them neils of the fingers that they used to take the cigarrette are yellow, ... also when they play some sport or they run, they quickly feel tired, because tobacco reduce the health of people. In plubic places smoke all the people, moreover if the place is closed. For example, in a bar, where there is twenty tables, if there is one or two smokers in each table, the place is full of smoke that it is received for all the people who stay there. I don’t think that it thing could be legal, because in this way everybody pay the consecuences that are produced for some people.