In my opinion marriage of persons of the same sex have to be allowed. We are always saying that we are in a new world, a liberal and tolerate world. We are always saying that we are sure that we are liberal people but, is this really? I think is true to say that many of us are lieying. When we are walking along the street and we see a couple of women or a couple of men kissing, we can’t avoid look at them. I’m not saying that this is a bad thing, because I know that this situation is a little bit strange to us at the beginning. But I hope that in little time we’ll get acostumbrated to it. The Spanish Government have just aprobated a law which says that marriage between persons of the same sex are allowed. I think that aprobe this law is a good thing to our society, because little by little this will us more tolerated. It is said that the government should aprobe the law that will permit homesexual couples to adopt children. I’m not sure that it is a good idea because I think that children at school are very bad, and that can determinate the sexual condition of the boy or of the girl but, the time will say that! Each person can have a different opinion but I think that it is normal, each people can have his own opinion. Well, I think that it is a very complicated subject, but in few years I’m sure that, if we don’t change of government, all these laws will be aprobed.
There are many opinions about this particular topic, because this is a controversial thing. On the one hand, the Church supports the opinion of not allowing these marriages, because it's said that God wouldn't permit them and it's against Nature. On the other hand, the Government is trying to allow marriages of persons of the same sex, although there are many doubts about it. From my point of view these marriages should be allowed, because love doesn't understand about religion and politic. However, I have many doubts about adopting children, because it could be a big problem for them. Let's put an example: Children would feel a bit different from the others if they had two fathers instead of one father and one mother. As I am concerned, I desagree with all those people who don't want persons of the same sex to marry, because everyone can do what they want if they don't disturb other people. We cannot tell other persons what they should do, but I know some persons that think they can, like a friend of mine who doesn't accept people who don't think as he does. This is not fair, because if everybody made the same we all couldn't live in peace and we would kill everybody. Why don't we let them do what they want? I would feel bad if someone told me who I have to marry with.
Nowdays, there are many polemic situations and opinions about the marriage of persons of the same sex. There are different minds about the allow of htese marriages. It’s normal, because it’s difficult choose the right option. Anybody have to can understand that the marriage is the union of two persons, not necessary a man and a woman. If we follow and accept this, it can’t be a problem allow this kind of marriages. So that, many problems of convivence would be resolve. For the law, this marriage would be legal and they would have the same rights and responsabilities. But a marriage also have others responsabilities apart from money, the house, etc.. Have a son or a daugther can be other responsability or consecuence of the marriage. A son or a daugther will make more difficult that it be accept. We can understand they can love it like any parents, but the rest of society maybe can not accept. The bigger problem will be the rest of children. They are very naive and they will be the first in ask for the mother or the father that isn’t. They will ask: “ Why I don’t have mother (or father) and my parteners do?”, or his parteners ask to his parents: “Why X has two fathers and no mother?” What will we answer them? For me, it’s the real problem about the marriage of persons of the same sex. I think same things can be allow, but not all.