A student who has finished his studies at university is not always prepared to work. At universities the majority of lectures are magistrals, there are not practical classes. The proffessional diplomas are practical but they are undervalued, most of students want to take a university degree. It is believed by the majority of university students that practical lectures are hardest than magistral lectures, they prefer to do a major effort at the end of the year, not the whole year. In addition to this, university teachers prefer magistral lectures because they have not to prepare classes before. The majority of university teachers are old and they are tired of teaching. Moreover the majority of university degrees are totaly theorical:filologies, policies, law studies... and they are supported by old studies plans without practice. In addition there is another problem: mediums for practice are very limited. Against this it could be argued that not all of university degrees are theorical. A lot of them have practical lectures, for exemple: nursery studies, gymnastic studies, ...At this faculties teachers teach practice and they dispose of practical mediums. In conclusion, after I have explained the most importants points of view about this topic I want to ask myself something: “Can we change our university studies system?”. The answer is in our hands.
Actually most university degrees do not prepare students for the real world, because they are theoretical. For that reason students are in a difficult situation. In the real world all is practise and they are not prepared for that. We must search the best solution to them. Nowadays university students are not prepared for the real world. In fact they had studied more theory than practise. However in the laboral work practise is more important than theory. On the other hand we must say that there is not practise without theory and also that theory has to be linked to practise. They have the same importance. In addition to this we have to say that some teachers only teach theory and they have not interest in practise. They argued that theory is the more important base. Therefore, because of what I’ve said in the body of my essay that’s what I think about university degrees: I think education system has to change. It’s necessary to prepare students in a best way in order to facilitate their laboral future.
First of all, we should make a distinction between outdoors places, this is places exposed to open air, and indoors places, where the air can not circulate loosely. I think that the impact of smoke(from tobacco) on the lungs of passive smokers is higher on a closed or indoors place than on an open or outdoors one because the air can not circulate and be renewed in the same way in both places. Regarding the outdoors places, we realize that there is full air circulation and renewing so the only problem we can find will be the smell of the tobacco smoke. This trouble can be avoided establishing two separated zones: one for smokers and the other for non-smokers with a slight separation but in the same place. In the case of indooors places, we find that air circulation is poor and even a good system of air-conditioning can not provide a renewed air as if we were outdoors. Taking this into account, we should try to avoid the contact between smokers and non-smokers creating a zone for each one of them. Those zones should be fully separated; this is, each one should be a room with total independence rom the other one. They should be considered as different places regarding their degree of separation and, this way it should be impossible that a smoker one could be affected in any way by the pollution of tobacco smokers. To sum up, I think that it is very difficult to find a public indoors place that could be divided in two to allow the creation of smoking roooms or even duplicating its services, for example: Can you imagine two different queues, one for smokers and the other for non-smokers, at the entrance of the INEM? So my conclusion is clear; it should be legal smoking in outdoors public places because with a few organization and respect there should not be any trouble, but regarding indoors public places, I think that smoking should be illegal because any health damage should be avoided, even the smallest possibility, and also the option of dividing the public places is very expensive and almost impossible.
The consumption of tobacco should be banned in public places. Smokers can make use of their rights in many places without disturbing other people. Furthermore, the rights of non-smokers should prevail before the ones of smokers, the health before the disease. We should not forget that tobacco is one of the main causes of death in our country nowadays, so if you decide to die, you don't have to condemn others to death. As mentioned before, a person who usually smokes has a lot of places to do it, and he should avoid disturbing others. Nowadays there have been established laws thaty impose the restriction of reserved areas for smokers in public places. However, harder laws should be passed in order to make these spaces to be respected. What's more, penalties should be imposed to those who do not respect them. Smokers can make use of their rights in these public reserved zones and they can also do it in private places such as their cars or their houses. The rights of non-smokers should have a greater weight in society, as they take care of their healteh when they make the decision of non-smoking. The health should prevail before the disease, specially when pregnant women and children become the victims of the smoke of the tobacco indirectly .
I agree with this statement because I consider that nowadays the University doesn´t prepare students for the real world. Classes are principally theoretical and in my case, for example, if I want to learn a language I know that I must travel abroad because if I stay here I´ll never learn it. I would like to have more practical classes with more speaking and learnings´exercises. I have the impression that when I finish the career I will not know to speak English (or other language) as I would have wanted. It´s the hard reality! I also think that Spanish educational system is worse thatn other European systems and it is reflected in the high level of unemployment. Students are less prepared than other European students. After, when they must get a job they don´t act as it´s expected. Another cause is the lack of help from governments, which are more interested in financial, economical and territorial issues than in educational problems. It´s very ashamed! Without a serious education we will never integrate in a plural society.
Through all our life we are told what to do, what it is morally wrong and what is not. Some people feel free to talk about everything, but they do not realize that most of the times they talk only through their point of view.They think they are the truth, and thus they do not care about other people feelings and as a consequence these 'gods of the word' are preventing people's most valuable thing: freedom. If we focused our speech on Spanish homosexual marriages there should not be any point of dicussion and the answer should be very easy. 'Should the marriage of persons of the same sex be allowed?', 'Yes'. The reason to this is that our main law, the Constitution, is based on the principle that every individual is free. Any individual of the Spanish society can do everything he wants to since he does not hurt psychologically or physically any other. Taking this statement as a referent there should not be any difficulty to answer the question made. But although our society is based on this old principle many sectors of society are against it. These groups' thoughts are similar in all the rest of the world. We can add then that the rest of the world does not have the same Constitution we do, and this would be a reasonable and true opinion. The United States of America are not ruled by Spanish Constitution, neither Russia, nor Italy, but they all have one aspect in common. All these countries are formed by human beings and humanity is controlled by a kind of universal law, which is the Human Rights. In my opinion and probably in the opinion of the people that allowed their signature to be on the Declaration of the Human Rights, every decission taken must be under consideration of this sense of freedom and respect. If people do not respect each other there would never be freedom, thus the more fragile individuals will always be governed by the strong and powerful. Besides, if some people say the only believed in God's word we may say to them that the first and main point of Christianity is to love each other as oneself. People should love and respect the others without paying any attention to their culture, colour of sin, sexuality, ... Although taking into consideration all these legal aspects, both political and religious, there is one factor that we can not forget, which is: history. People are conditionated through history under a patriarchal society, where the family is the main important element. This family will be formed by a man, a woman and their children, and anything that will go against this will be considered odd and irregular, but what is worst, it will be considered illegal. All in all, if we want to live in a better place, where people will feel free and live in harmony and peace, the main element will be respect,and thus every body should be able to decide who they want to live with, and who they want to love, without any kind of restrictions; through this we could be able to say that we live based on the terms of Freedom and respect.