Nowadays, it’s being tried to forbide smoking in public places in many countries. In my opinion, it isn’t the best solution because people who smoke would probably feel discriminated and in part they would have the reason. I think that smoking isn’t a good habit but we can’t forbide people to smoke and this solution proposed means that smokers couldn’t make whtat they usually make and probably they need it a lot. I really believe that there must be other solution for this problem because it is a big problem. By the one hand we find the people who smoke and want to continue smoking and by the other hand we find the people who doesn’t smoke and don’t want to take the smoke from the others. Both the smokers and the non-smokers have their reasons and the solution for the problem should satisfie both groups. So I consider that one possible solution and perhaps the better would be that there were two spaces divided in public places as restaurants, trains ... This solution already works in some places but I know that in other places is very difficult to do this division. And even it could happen that many people felt discrimintated with this possibility. Besides, very complicated situations could be produced, for example if a family goes to a restaurant and some members of this family are smokers but the other ones aren’t the situation only could be arranged by them and if the people were friends it would even be more difficult. To sum up, although I don’t smoke I think that smoking in public places shouldn’t be illegal but the solutions for the problem are very difficult to find.
In my view, the marriage of persons of the same sex must be allowed. In spite of the fact that I think that the marriage isn’t important, the relationships of persons of the same sex are likely to want to get married becaose this offers them a lot of legal advantages. It’s horrible that a couple who has been living in partner for a years, if one of them dies or desappears, the other wouldn’t have any rights and profites. I think the law should help them because many times they have been nearer of the dead than their family. I don’t understand why there are still people who fight against these kind of marriages. If two persons love each other, why should mind the sex of them? When you fall in love, you fall in love with a person: body and soul. Fruethermore in my opinion, the most important is the second. Although the most of people no longer desagree with the relations of persons of the same sex. Nowadays the society is more tolerant and I think that can’t afford to stand in the past, our wold is openning his eyes and we should do the same.
I think that all the persons are free to choose the person who they’re going to stay. This problem isn’t a new theme of this times, there have been always this problem, a lot of people are homosexuals, even a lot of famous people! The marriage between them should be allowed by the law because nobody can say who should like them. These people have or should have the same rights like others. Wherever you go always there is people that have a bad idea about this, they have a ‘close mind’, a lot of this problems came from the education of this people. If you grow in a family where you learn that all people are free to choose and they have to be respected like they have to respect you, a place where you learn to grow without prejudices, that will be better; for that I think the bottom of this problem is in the education that you receive since you’re little. When this law is let, there will be other problem. These people like every mariage would like adopt children or have them theirselves if they can, in the case of women, but in the case of men that would be impossible! I think that the society isn’t prepared to these changes, it would be a hard situation for them, for children because they would suffer humilations from this partners in the school or in other places; and this would do that these children hate each to others, and even to parents. The ideal situation could be a ‘change of mind’ in order to these future generations don’t suffer. That isn’t right that these people feel embarrased by their sexual condition.