
Due to the great impact of smoke-free policies and laws and to the great importance that debates on tobacco have lately acquired, it has become a problem that concerns everybody. First of all, I have to say that I am a non-smoker, so my position goes against tobacco. It is well known that tobacco does not only prejudices active smokers but also people around them. If you live with a smoker you can endure this situation or even lay down your own rules but, what about public places? A smoker should understand that whenever he lights a cigarette in a public place everybody there immediately becomes passive smokers without their consent. Smokers should learn to be more tolerant and control their addition when they are surrounded by other persons. Now that the authorities have banned tobacco in public places the number of people who smoked there would decrease considerably. However, there are people that completely depend on it, so, to my way of thinking, they would ignore this prohibition. Inspite of everything, the pros of banning smoking in these type of places are much more strong and reasonable that the cons. I agree with the measures taken by the Government, including that of the elimination of all kinds of tobacco advertisements and the transmission of anti-smoking adds instead. They want to make us understand that holding a cigarette is so absurd as playing a party blower. Tobacco cannot be eradicated all of a sudden, that is why the Government does not ban the commercialization with this product. It would lead to a chaotic reaction of the population. Obviously, the complete illegalization of tobacco would also carry many economic implications and the authorities are not willing to be exposed to problems of the like. From my point of view, a regulation was necessary. Moreover, many people find in the anti-smoking law the perfect opportunity to give up smoking and some of them have already looked for professional help. It is an important step, as the number of cancer victims increases every year; the WHS is constantly warning about the health consequences on smoking. Although the effects of tobacco are not so damaging for passive smokers, we also have to take into consideration that there are people who find cigarette smoke unpleasant. So smokers must understand that tobacco bothers those persons who cannot bear the smell of their clothes after leaving a close room where people have been smoking. Some employers have adopted this new law turning their businesses into smokefree dining sites, bars and so on. But the hospitality industry argues this would give some employers an unfair advantage over others which continue to permit smoking. Now, we have no alternative but to wait for the right working of this recent law. However, for the time being, many employers have already suggested their employees not to leave their posts to go out and smoke a cigarette. They allege that it would imply a considerable reduction of labour time.
The main reason for that is that the smoking can be dangerous to non-smokers. The most of non-smokers feel themselves uncomfortable when they are with smokers, and the worst of all is that their own health can suffer because of it. So this is the reason for what smoking will be illegal in public places. However, people are not conscious of that and it will be difficult not to allow them to smoke. Nowadays people hasn't in mind their own health so just think about others is impossible. The best solution begins to educate from childhood that smoke can affect yourself and people's around you. And if it is too late, make an extra effort to do it. In the last few years, goverment have make an aggressive compain to tobbaco companies and also they have informed people how dangerous are cigarrettes. Goverment's attitude had been so hardly that tobbaco industry sell their products as cancer producters. Others countries or public places has decide to adecuate a smoker and a non-smoker suit, so people now is divided into smoker, and non-smoker rather than in group of friends. This is a placebo because of they can't reeducate people in that sense. Society has an important role on this. More than society is culture which has made people to smoke. Most of people has begun to smoke because his or her friend did. To conclude the best solution has been the reeducation, and changing of culture of people, but it is planted so deeply that it impossible. Finally the goverment has attacked cigarrettes companies to terminate with this problem that not only affects to smokers.

In my opinion, people who smoke should have the right to do it, but at the same time, non-smokers don't need to be bothered with their habits. The important thing is where it can be allowed to smoke. For instance, I consider as public places anywhere which is outside our own houses, so under this label would be: streets, cafeterias, shops,... In closed places, it should be illegal to smoke because the smoke stays there and it's very perjudicial to the other people. Outside, in the streets, it shouldn't be illegal, as the smoke disipate easily so it is not so perjudicial. Another possibility could be to book some areas inside bars, pubs,... for only smokers and other for non smokers. What I think it's going to difficult to get it's that people stop smoking inside discoteques. I do not myself smoke, but it is even difficult for me to imagine a discoteque without the smoke of the cigarrettes of other people. Some people consider that it would not be the same. I think it would be nice to go out from a disco without smelling to smoke, because if not, you have to wash all your clothes only you wear it just for a while. The most important fact to make illegal smoking in public places is related to the diseases it can bring. In addition, it seems the problems caused by cigarretes are worse in non-smokers (that is passive smokers because they inhale the smoke of others) than in smokers.