I think that smoking in public places should be illegal because if a person doesn't smoke but this is in a public place where the people around it are smoking, it can be annoying for this person. Furthermore, it can be prejudicial. It also can be an aid for people that smoking because in this way a lot of this people don't smoke in the future. I think that people smoke for habit because when you are in a bar or caffetery and you are having a coffee or beer around you, there are a lot of people smoke and it can infer in that you also smoke. So if all the people don't smoke in public place when you don't see anybody smoke you don't also want a cigarrette. On the other hand people that not smoke if they are in a peace where the people are smoking they are inhaling the smoke and this is bad for their healthy. And I think that people that not smoke don't have why inhale smoke if they don't want. For that reason, I think that smoke in public place should be illegal, for the people that don't smoke. Finally I think that only should be legal to smoke in the streets, open places or in their own houses.
From my point of view, university degrees are probably part-useful for the real world. In other words, the content of degrees should be reviewed in depth and more oftenly. Most of subjects I've had to do are worthless and people just consider them as subjects which will reduce your HUGE amount of credits for completing your grade. But there are a few other subjects I found interesting and useful at the same time. These ones combined with some practical hours would be more accurate for preparing future professional in each area. My experience in other universities provided me knowledge about alternatives in educational systems. I think investigation is better than exams.
I agree with the topic of this composition in some way, so I will explain my position from my personal case. There are some university degrees as the one I am finishing this year, English Phylology, in which you are not prepared to what most of the students want to do in the future, become a teacher. This degree focuses to a great extent on linguistics and literature, leaving methodology apart. Methodology is necessary if you want to teach in the future, and it is an optional rather than a compulsory course to be followed. Subjects like these focus on practice more than in theory, they show the students how to behave in their future jobs. The great load of literature and linguistic knowledge you acquire during the degree is really useful if you want to follow a PHD afterwards, but this is not the case of the majority of students. But the case of English Phylology is not an isolated one. The rest of phylologies have the same problem, and apart from that, degrees like Computers have a similar situation. Students decide to do this degree because they like computers and know how to use them and what they find is a great load of physics and theory, mainly during the first and second year. Due to this, students are choosing more and more to follow a kind of course that is taken in the high school instead of in the universities, and lasts less than three years. In the last year you are given the chance to put your knowledge in practice in an enterprise. These courses are not very important for their C.V. but some people are given the chance to keep on working in the enterprises and their contracts are no longer temporal. I think that degrees should be more oriented to the proffessional future and to the necessity of students interested in taking a specific job (teacher, computer engeneering). To solve this they should make the two first years of each degree common to every student and then separate them in a group for the ones who want to take a PHD and another group for the ones who are more interested in find a job as soon as possible.