I think that a person smokes in a public place is very impolite. In my opinion people mustn’t smoke because can be bad for the health. The public institutions don’t recomended smoke because the problems are more. A lot of people don’t comprehension that the ciga give problems us. The students start smoke in the Secondary School. Their friends also buy cigarettes. In my point of view people smoke and smoke. Perhaps nowadays women buy more cigarettes than the men. The government don’t created an institution against smoke in “public places”. It must make it. It is neccessary. The people need more help to do not get cigarettes. More times there are people that they want go out of this routine. The students of the University smoke less because they aren’t younger than the other student people. In the other way people must forget smoking because is a conflict in suppose.
Smoking is at the moment an issue of great importance. a lot of people argue about it. There are different opinions and this might become a problem. Firstly, I think it would be interesting to say that this particular drug is bad for someone’s health. Furthermore, the smoke may affect the people who stay near a smoker. On the other hand, as far as I am concerned, it may be considered like a lack of respect. For example, if I am eating in a restaurant and there is a smoker who is sat near from me, this fact might disturb me. Another important theme is that many people want to smoke in public places. It should be illegal because this action can repercute over the others and it is not healthy. There are more and more pacients with lung cancer and it might be avoidable if the smokers fallow the law which has been established several months ago. In different countries from Spain, the situation in relation with the smokers has really improved thanks to the laws and helps of the government. As well, in other places the people have decided to stop to smoke in order for their health to become better. To resume, if everybody could do it, why we cannot?
We are in the 21st century and people should have a more open mind concerning to everything in general, but specially when we talk about human rights and desires. Nowadays, a lot of people manifest themselves as homosexuals and they are people like you and me, with the same necesities, feelings and problems. So, why are not they going to get married? According to some religions people, homosexual people are mentally ill, trastorned and the fact of getting married among them is a 'terrible sin' because it goes against Biblical beliefs and it is bad seen by God's eyes. For example, the Bible says that women and men were created to populate the earth and procreate, so homosexual couples cannot do that because of obvious circumstances. However, new generations think different about this topic, so people start to be more tolerant with everything related to gays and lesbians. More and more people become homosexual and in a near future, I think we are going to equilibrate the balance among heterosexual and homosexual population. Everybody have ever known a gay or a lesbian and it is totally normal, but not ten years ago. For example, I have a lesbian's cousin and she is supported by her friends and family, but several years ago this could be different. In spite of all these progresses of human's mind, it still exists a very large group of people who do not agree with this theme but they are going to end up accepting it as normal, I hope.