The new anti-smoking law comes to solve a very important problem in public health. The prohibition of smoking in public places is a good idea because it is a benefit for everyone. Passive smokers do no longer have to worry about breathing someone else's smoke which is especially dangerous in some situations, such as when children or pregnant women are involved. Furthermore, it will be good for smokers as well since it will help them to dicrease the number of cigarettes a day. If they are no longer allowed to smoke at their workplace they will progressively reduce the cigarettes they used to smoke. Moreover, if they cannot have so many pauses in order to smoke they will spend more time working and this will result in more benefits for the company. The most controversial part of this law is its application in bars and restaurants. The owners of these bussinesses are given the opportunity to choose whether they want them to be smoking or non-smoking places. It is not a good idea because this way, non-smokers would not free to go to anywhere they want since their health would continue to be damaged. Furthermore, the workers of these places would still suffer the negative consequences of breathing the smoke of the customers. Smokers should be more tolerant and they should obey the law. If they complain against it they are just showing their selfishness and their lack of respect for non-smokers health. They should not feel persecuted because the law is not against them and their freedom but in defence of non-smokers rights and public health. They should consider it as an opportunity to start a healthier life with new habits rather than an attack to their rights.
I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because all people of both sexes have the same rights. Marriage is a union of two people who love each other, independently of the sex. Spanish government has passed this year a new law allowing the marriage between persons of the same sex. Not so many years ago homosexuals are considered to be ill persons, mainly by the Church who considered that this kind of relation is unnatural; and ununderstanding. They think that marriage is the union between a woman and a man who love each other, but nowadays, fortunately people that thinks in this way are lesser and lesser. Nowadays there are a lot of politicians and famous people that are in favour of marriages between persons of the same sex. Spain is one of the big amount of countries, such as Holand that passes a law like this and the amount of countries that join this cause are bigger and bigger. The Church are against this law. They considered that homosexual marriages should not be allowed because are unnatural, and they want the government to avoid this law by doing manifestations constantly. Nowadays there are a lot of associations that supports this idea of the church. I think that there are archaic ideas because all people have the same rights independently of their sexual oritentation. I don't know any reason why this kind of marriages should be banned. It is as if homosexual people want to ban heterosexual marriages. I think that it is absurd because people can do what they want and their sexual orientation should not interphere in their life. Fortunately we are in the XXI century and homosexual people are not persecuted and punished like in ancient times and they can do what they want. It's true that nowadays some people continue to discriminate homosexual people at time of chosing a job. Thanks to the growth of society, mentally speaking, they have the same rights that heterosexual, because the are normal people in spite of the thoughts of the Church and its followers. I am totally in favour of homosexual marriages because I think that all people have the same rights and a person can't determine what other person have to do because we don't have any power in other's decisions. All people have same rights.
From the beginning of this year, a law which allows the marriage of persons of the same sex was passed. Firstly, this law causes certain problems, specially in the religious atmosphere since it is difficult for many people to accept it. But, nowadays, it seems that people are starting to accept it, although with the exception of some institutions such as the Church, which already thinks that the marriage among persons of the same sex is unnatural. Love is a natural right of which each person should enjoy and for this reason any way of considering it should be respected since homosexual people can love in the same way that heterosexual people. So, the question of marriage among these peope should not mean a problem for the rest of society. Some arguments against this issue are the problem of having children or taking care of them because people who disagree with this kind of marriage say that they are not able to take care of them as an heterosexual partner. Today, there is a growth in the number of parents who don't take care of their children as they should and among these partners, there are not any cases for the moment in which the parents are homosexual. So, before banning these people the right of having children, we should stop to think about this question and to analise seriously the real reasons why people disagree with these homosexual marriages, that is, what are their real prejuices.