
Nowadays, the choice of entering or not in the University is less important for people finishing Secondary School. Other choices are shown. However, those people who want to become part of the University world have to face an entrance examination. Sometimes, it is not an effective and fair system. People who defend the entrance examination affirm that it is important to show a common knowledge on basic subjects such as History, Grammar or Maths. In this sense, entrance examinations system provides students in general with a solid base of culture, and they are obliged to study those subjects during the last year at Secondary School. Besides, it is not a matter of obliging students to deal with subjects that they don't like, because they leave the chance to choose an 'especialised' like of study: Maths, Biology... or Latin, Art, Philosophy... which will be presented as examns in university entrance examinations. On the other hand, we find defenders of the opposite option who support themselves saying that those common subjects are not linked to future degrees which the student wants to choose. For instance, a person who wants to study Biology is obliged to do an examn on Philosophy or History (as they are compulsory subjects in university entrance examinations). Those subjects are not a basic element on their future degree. Thus, people defending a non-entrance examination system prefer an examination at a different level, this is, an entrance examination for a certain faculty or degree which implies necessary and basic sujects for the future degree of the student. Moreover, it is a matter of fact that the entrance examination mark is not the final mark required but just a minimun part. This mark is linked to the one got at Secondary School, so, it is not as objective as it seems to be. In a European fram, we should adapt and adopt foreign systems which do work and with which people are satisfied. It is not a matter of advantages and disadvantages, it is a matter of reaching the highest level in educational matters to form workers who show competitiveness and who are able to be equals as our European neighbours.
Nowadays, our government considers illegal smoking in public places since the tobacco can be very damaging for our health. I think that this question is obvious for us. Nevertheless, people will not stop smoking although this measure is in force. Instead of prohibiting this habit, government should improve the slogans anti-tobacco which isn’t good at all. For example, when you buy a packet and you see the slogan, you don’t throw it. In my opinion, slogans like “Smoking can kill “ shouldn’t be put in packets but in public places, magazines or in the streets. Other question that I would change could be the prohibition of smoking in restaurants and bars. I think that all this public places should have two parts, one for smokers and the other one for no-smokers, because everybody has the same rights. With regard to the topic of the health, I think that each person knows what they do and it’s clear that the present slogans don’t affect to young people since we live the present and we don’t already think in the future. In conclusion, the government shouldn’t prohibit this habit in public places. In my opinion, persons should establish their own limits since people don’t like that others impose rules in their lifes.
To start with I’ll like to say that I’m not a smoker so, my point of view is going to be clear although I’ll try to express my opinion from the others (smokers) points of view. In one hand I think that the smoke is an action which is allowed in our society in spite of being proved that it’s unhealthy. People start smoking from early ages just because if you do that you think that you are an adult and it gives you independence and make you feel free. Our society leads you to smoke by showing some adverts on TV or in the street. Young people can see adults smoking everywhere so that they think it shouldn’t be a bad thing. On the other hand the Health Department is advising that more and more people are losing their lives because of smoking. They advise not to smoke but they don’t take any important decision in order to make it an illegal action. Everybody can by cigarrettes anywhere and although it’s illegal to buy it by people under eighteen, nobody asks for your identity in order to check your age. I think that it should be illegal to smoke in public places because in this way we will improve our health but I also think that if is allowed to smoke so there should be special closed places where people could smoke. The most important thing is to consider everybody’s rights and to be tolerant with others decisions having always into account that our health is the first thing to consider. I also think that doctors and all the society should help those people who want to give up smoking in order to stop this bad habit. The Health Department should spend more money helping smokers to give up smoking rather to spend such a lot of medicines to improve those illness caused by the effects of smoking. We should take as example other countries were it’s illegal to smoke in public places, they can’t do it and they run a normal life. Even if it’s going to be hard to make it work, people should get use to the idea and finally it could be possible to get it.