It had been proved by several medical researchers that smoking is dangerous both for active and passive smokers. For instance, doctors say that smoking is directly related with lung cancers and heart attacks, two of the most important death causes in Western Countries. And doctors say too that there’s a strong connection between conception problems like infertility or abortion and smoking. And we can continue looking for several more diseases because there’s a long list of them. Smokers justifies themselves saying that such diseases have a lot more to do with some chemical products added to preserve tobacco and the burnt of the paper used to wrap cigarettes than with tobacco itself. But, on the other hand, non-smokers consider that they have the right to ask the government for the prohibition of smoking, because of the dangers of tobacco. Under such perspective, it’s not only a matter of health, but also a matter of education, cleaness and tolerance with non-smokers. So why don’t the State banned tobacco selling? It would be a coherent measure, because tobacco illnesses costs a lot of money to our Public Health System. There’s one very important reason: more than the money the system “waste” in treatments of severe illnesses related with smoking, is the money the system “collects”. Tobacco (and spirits(1)) taxes are very important in the State Budget every year. Some time ago I read some very interesting opinions of a tobacconist that works in the business for twenty five years. And she was raised up selling tobacco (she inherited a shop from her parents). There’s a lot of changes when she began selling tobacco up till now. For instance, she considered that she sold a better tobacco when she began in the business than now, because tobacco has now more and more added substances and because of the –what she calls- “fashionable” light tobacco (I read somewhere that light tobacco has more chemical products added than “normal” tobacco). Obviously, she sells different kinds of tobacco and there’s a strong connection between the best sold tobacco trademarks, publicity and low prices(2). I think that we can’t say that if the Government increases tobacco prices, smokers are going to disappear. People from the U.K. explained to me that the rise of tobacco prices has a lot to do with the change of habits there. I heard that a lot of people in the U.K. that some years ago smoked cigarettes, now rolls their own cigarettes (with tobacco or with mild drugs, cheaper than tobacco). Another story is that there are some british people that earn their living coming to Spain in order to buy tobacco –because here is cheaper- and sell it in Britain. With all this information in mind, I consider that making smoking illegal isn’t the solution of “tobacco” problems. In Spain tobacco has a lot to do with social life: we smoke in pubs, cafes. And the Government campaigns against tobacco (for instance, with “unpleasant” messages at cigarettes boxes) are considered a sort of a joke by many heavy smokers, so I dare say that such campaign has no real and effective results. My own opinion about what smokers have to try is change a bit their habits as tobacco consumers. Perhaps could be useful for them to analyse when and where they used to smoke, in order to control their habit. So, I think that only personal and individual decisions could bring real change. If tobacco is something easy to find you can make up your mind and say if you want to buy a box or not. About tobacco being banned, we can’t forget that humans usually feel tempted by prohibited things (that so-called(3) illegal drugs(4) are a good example of what I try to say). About smoking in public places, I only think that both smokers and non-smokers have to adapt themselves. For me it’s obvious that with children around, pregnant women or people with lung diseases for instance, smokers have to avoid their habit. The other day I watched on television a chapter of “Friends”, that had a funny gag about smoking on your job place. One of the members of the gang was a heavy smoker. And he can’t smoke at his office. So he invented a system. He hid a cigarette in the drawer of his work table. He smoked once. He put the cigarette in the drawer, sprayed some air freshener in the office and something in his mouth for his tobacco bad breath. After two or three times repeating this action because of his addition, he finally made a mistake an put air freshener on his mouth and the product for the breath in the room. So the problem he had in his working place was how to smoke without being discovered, but not how to be a good workers. So perhaps banning tobacco could bring such a situation besides us. That’s why I don’t like the idea. And I’m not a heavy smoker. (1)Another “problematic” substances that in several countries like the States, some specific measures are held to control them and for instance you can’t take alcoholic drinks on the street (2)Low prices that perhaps means a lower quality of the product sold (3)I said so-called because it’s not difficult to find drugs in Spain, if you want to take them (4)Illegal drugs are related with several illneses, like AIDS. About 80% of people in jail are involved in drugs both as consumers or as drug dealers.
I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because I think it is a matter of love, not a matter of sex. It is also a right for the people, all people should have that option to get married If they want so. Most people think that a marriage is a union between two people of different sexes, man and woman, but it is only a union between two people. If love an respect exist, what is the importance of the sex? I think that most people who think that these marriages shold be banned should think about of love not about of sex, they should be more tolerant. On the other hand it is the question of rights. Appart from love reasons there is a legal reason. All people have the same rights and the fact should not change as far as marriage is concerned. For instance in a question of heritage, It is not important if you spend all your lifetime with your partner because if he or she dies and you are not married you do not receive anything from his or her heritage. From my point of view it is not a just situation because in heterosexual marriages the situation is different. Fortunately the situation is changing in Spain as far as legal terms is concerned but there is still people who thinks that these unions should be banned because they think that they are not real marriages, because it is not natural..., and silly things like these.
The society we live in nowadays is undergoing many changes in its composition and in its values. Many of such changes are not completely accepted by all people, and they are not well seen. This is the case of granting legal marriage and rights to persons of the same sex. It is my contention to defend the idea that homosexual couples must have the same rights as heterosexual ones to get married under the same conditions. One of the most recurrent argument against homosexual marriage is the one affecting religious ideas. Many people justifies their disagreement appealing to religious statements such as the natural conception of marriage as union between a man and a woman, and therefore, denying the possibility of a union between two persons of the same sex. However, in a country such as Spain, declared aconfessional, no religious ideals and conceptions should interfear in legal affairs. On the other hand, a democratic state must grant the same legal rights to any individual independently from their race, sex, social or sexual condition. In this sense, prohibiting homosexual marriage is against the constitutional law itself. It is argued that one of the basic problems that granting homosexual marriages brings, is that related to the adoption of children. According to this argument, children belonging to a homosexual family don't develope in the same way as other children, since they would have to face difficult situations at school with children belonging to heterosexual families. Besides, these children are supossed to need the figure of both a mother and a father. However, it is not the first time that the traditional family changes its structure. Monoparental families have been increasing during the last decades. As a consequence of this, many children have been brought up without the figure of a father or a mother. The other part of this last argument would be that fact that adopted children would be really happy and well treated because they would be much desired by their adoptive parents. Of course, all adoptive parents desire a children to come but homosexual couples have more difficulties, as it would be a more figured out decision. As far as I am concerned, it is a basic necessity for society to admit and cohexist with the different values arising everyday. It is the only way to keep democratic ideas alive.