I think that the controversy created in Spanish society has not really has to do to what it actually means. Spanish drivers are used to do whatever they want when driving, and that is the point that this is the matter that worries them. What this law truly implies is that we drivers must be aware of the danger we are exposed to when we drive and that we must be extremely careful. This matter should not be neither a strage thing nor an unsual behaviour, because it deals with our safety, and that of the other drivers. This behaviour of us drivers should be adopted and learned not from the first time we drive (what in many cases is not a Driving Schools but at home, another feature of our imprudent conduct) but from the first time that we are aware that we are social beings, and we must behave in that way when driving. That system of penalty points that, as usual arrives too late to our country has not been created in order to punish, but in order to prevent more deads. We are so fatalistic that we only mind the fact of being removed our points, but that only happens when we have an unconcious and a passive attitude in our beautiful and powerful cars. But we do not care if points have been removed because we did not wear the safety belt, what is really sad and desperating, because this is an automatic action we should make as soon as we get into the car. I say once again that it is very sad not to wear it because it really saves lifes, and the DGT does not make controls in order to incommodate drivers and just for getting money, but the really do it for our own benefit. Besides, there is the matter of alcohol. Should it be allowed to drive when we have drunk it? My personal answer to this question is no, we should not. Alcohol minimize our abilities and our capacity of perception of reality, what makes us uncapable of driving properly and correctly and, of course, safety. Finally, I must say that I find it a bit unfair with learning drivers, because it is more strict with us than with the other drivers. Although I understand they are more experienced than us, it must also be said that they do not normally respect the law and they are more uncared. I think that those drivers with more than a determinate experience of many years should have to pass periodic exams in order to determine their capacities and abilities and their remembering the law. I think that we must be totally concious of the danger of driving when we do not do it properly. In what referres to me, I only have to pass my driving exam next Monday.
Love is a universal feeling; it is something that everybody knows. The heart sometimes leads people to fall in love with each other, regarless sex. From a biological point of view, this kind of relationship may be understood as unnatural, I mean in the sense of being completely impossible to gave birth a new life. But this fact is no more a problem itself since adoption exists as well as scientific advances, such as fecundation in-vitro, which allows two women or two men becoming parents, as if the "normal" or expected ones. It is perhaps from the religious point of view that people are more reluctant to accept this kind of relationship. There have been always many constrictions in this respect due to the conservative Church... Law has changed a lot in the last years. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex is gradually losing its "grotesque" connotations. But, things have already to change much more. Since I am heterosexual, I don't really understand why or how persons of the same sex feel so, but I don't judge or condem them. And, why not? If they are in love, they should do it.
I am totally in favour the new driving law because I consider that the idea of losing their licenses would make drivers be more careful when being at the road. It seems that the only way to have them controlled is by means of threatening them wiht the loss of their rights. However, I consider that some penalties are not as hard as they should be. The simple fact of being caught drunk while driving should be enough to lose all the points of the license because this action actually implies a risk both for the driver and for the rest of the citizens. Moreover, I think that drunk drivers who hurt or kill other people should be sent to prison as a punishment for their crimes. This new driving law seems to be effective at least when the amount of accidents is concerned. People seem to be more aware now of the fact that exceeding the speed allowed is dangerous and can have fatal consequences. However, one may wonder if people drive more carefully because they have realized that the car is a dangerous weapon or just to avoid losing points of their licenses and being fined. If the reason was the lattest, it would mean that we have learned nothing, that we do not care about our security or about the others', that we have not discovered yet that our crazy actions can destroy our lives or, even worse, other people's lives. What we should wonder then, if this is the case, is if the education we are receiving is the one we should receive. It seems that we only react when we fear we can lose money or something we really want or need. And this is a direct consequence of the type of materialistic society we have created. We do not care about other people, the question is not if you could have killed another person but the points you are going to lose and the amount of money you will have to pay. Some people even question if the points penalty is too excessive for the action they have comitted, what gives a clear idea of the fact that we do not give to our imprudences at the road the importance we should. By making the law harder we will reduce the amount of accidents even though if it only is by means of a threat. The real success will be when people drive carefully because of their own convinction, not because of their fear to a fine.