The prohibition of smoking in public places is a controversial theme. The smokers and non-smokers have a great different opinion, Both of them have rights, but the problem is that these rights are totally opposite. Smokers want to smoke when they need it, and they do not think about others, their preocupation is satisfying their necessity. On the other hand, non-smoker's popinion is that they have the right of breathing in a clear atmosphere. Although smokers and non-smokers think that in certain areas or public places the tobacco should be banned, in this case they are speaking about hospitals, supermarkets etc. Smoking in public places should be illegal but, at the same time the government should give sanctions for smokers such as programmes for give up tobacco, or restricted areas for smoking. It's important to know that smokers suffer a type of adiction and in some moments they need a cigarette and they cannot control themselves. So they need help or other options not only a prohibition. On the other hand, a good solution could be that the government make a prohibition about tobacco, they should banned to sell cigarettes. But goverment do not want this solution because they would lose the money of taxes in this way. It's a bit ironic that the government think about the possibility of making illegal to smoke in public places. Government should start taking into account about small thing such as, the prohibition of advertissment in walls or in different types of magazines, goverment also allow that the industry of tobacco writing smoking can kill but govermnent do not do nothing else. Non-smokers also have rights. in some public places they should breath authenthic pollution, and they damage themselves without smoking.

Smoking is one of those realities that not only has to carry the burden of being a politically incorrect habit, but also one of those things which are fashionable to criticise. We rarely see anyone protesting behemently against the progressive deterioration of public school funding in Spain, but as soon as the topic of smoking is brought up, we will undoubtely hear someone raising his voice against it. Facts aginst it are, on the other hand, well known by everybody : people dying of terminal illnesses, yellow fingers, black teeth... It would seem logical to assume that we need to stop this habit. But should we? As almost everythibng in life, smoking is something xxx. What is the point in making something as that illegal? Wouldn't it be for ther worst? Hystory teaches us that banning something only serves to create a bigger demand for it and illegal ways of getting it . Then, on the other hand, stands the issue of passive smokerss. Why people who don't like to smoke should have to start smoke-polluted air? It seems reasonable to legislate in some way the conditions on which smokers should be able to practice therir habit without disturbing non-smokers, the point here is understnding: Smoking will never be illegal although many people would like it to be that way, and neither would smoking be allowed everywhere, even when many smokers would love it. Smoking should be restricted in public areas, but not illegalised, or prohibited. That would be and extreme decision which would only create discomfort, as it already does in many countries. Unfortunately, those decisions are politically correct.
In my opinion smoking in public places should be illegal. There are many reasons to defend this idea. Firstly smoking is completely unhealthy not only for smokers but also for people around smokers. Tobacco provokes a lot of problems in people such as illnesses related to breath and also psychological complications such as anxiety, dependency and adiction. Apart from these problems, which are directly related to the body, there are also economic disadvantages; smoking implies to spend money to buy tobacco, and it is not precisely a cheap "habbit". But one of the most important problems of smoking is that doing this near other people smokers damage these non-smoking people. I mainly refer to children and pregnant women, although tobacco affects wrongly everybody. Fortunately there are areas for non smokers, but there should be more, for instance in places such as restaurants, pubs, universities, etc. The sensation that I feel when I come in a pub is horrible: my eyes and my nose suffer too much and the smell of tobacco is horrible. I think that Spanish should follow the example of other European countries and create more areas where smoking is restricted. I accept that a person wants to smoke and that he/sh likes it but what I can not accept is that this person damage other people with his/her smoking. I think that tobacco is one of the worst discovers because it is something that does not cause damage, but this is only apparently, because the fact is that smoking kills people. I consider too sad to see may people dying because of smoking. There should be more advertisment to warn about the consequences of smoking in order to make people aware about them. Another important question about smoking is the type of advertisment that tobacco companies make in order to get great benefits. On TV commercials about smoking tobacco is presented as something young, miodern, funny, etc. The message that they try to communicate is that if you smoke these cigarrettes you will be like them; this implies that you will be young, modern, fashionable, etc. Because of this many young children begin to smoke too young because doing it they feel fashionable. But these TV commercials do not talk about the wrong consequences of smoking. In my opinion these kind of commercials should be more severe and serious or simply and better do not exist. So, as I have said, smoking should be illegal because it is an enemy for the health of everybody. Unfortunately, it is difficult to achieve, so one right way to destroy it would be to make aware people and show to the youngest the dark side of smoking, which is its unique side.
The problem of smoking in public places is a very controversial topic nowadays. Most smokers have a clear opinion: it must not be banned. However, what do those who do not smoke think? Varied opinions are available. On one hand, there is a group of people (probably the largest one)who strongly believe that smoking in public places should be illegal. On the other hand, the more tolerant group of non-smokers argue that smoking is not a good thing, but that we should let everybody choose by themselves. Nevertheless, we still have the problem of the public health remaining. Therefore, it seems clear that, although both smokers and non-smokers should have their rights, not all public places are of the same kind so as to forbid smoking in all of them. Nowadays, especially in the most recent times, some people have started to see the fight against tabacco as something really necessary and important. Every day we turn on our television and we can watch a thousand advertisements about helpful products that will set you free from this vice. Even television shows are trying to beat Guiness records of people who have stopped smkoking thanks to them. Governments are taking serious measures in order to reduce the number of smokers. There are rising prizes and showing citizens the risks they take by smoking. But probably the most important measure they are now starting to take in Spain is that of forbidding smoking in public places because, as many studies have proved, passive smokers are very prone to getting one of the most feared illnesses: cancer. The biggest problem of all this seems that everybody has forgotten to ask smokers their opinions. Everybody is trying to prevent them from smoking, but no one has asked them if they really want to stop smoking. They get up one day and, suddenly, they are one of the worst problems the society has to fight against. In a world where everybody talks about civil rights, freedom of opinion and free will, they suddenly see their rights as smokers reduced. Of course, I suppose they do not want to damage other peop0le with their smoke. But, what if they choose to damage themselves? Other drugs like heroine, cocaine or even alcohol are much worse than tobacco and the fight against them is not so strong. What do we do then? If breathing other people's smoke is dangerous for passive smokers but smokers have the right to smoke, what do we do with public places? Do we make smoking illegal? Do we let smokers enjoy their freedom? This is a very controversial problem, but probably the fairest solution is one which respects both the rights of smokers and of non-smokers. Besides,not all public places should be included within the same category. For example, it is not the same to smoke in a hospital than to smoke in a pub or a restaurant. In a hospital there are sick people and they do not go there because they want. In a pub, you drink and smoke and you are there because you want to have fun and not because of a necessity. From my point of view it is not a bad idea to forbid smoking in some public places, but only if special areas for smokers are designated. Summing up, we all have rights. Neither non-smokers should become the "victims" of smokers, nor smokers should become the "victims" of non-smokers. The world is big and there is space enough for everybody in it.
We live in a world where everyday health is more and more important. People live much longer and want to pass their golden age as healthy as possible, so they can enjoy their years of retirement. Smoking has become in these last years one of the most controversial subjects. Scientific studies demonstrate that it produces cancer and many other lung diseases.So less people smoke and these people, do not wish to be in contact with smoke and its prejudicial effects. I bellieve that everyone has the right to preserve their health and not be uncomfortable in public places. I think that smoking should be banned in public places, not only because of what I have already said, but also because a non-smoker cannot go away from smoke, but a smoker can try not smoke in public places. Smoking is a personal option. Some people choose to smoke, not caring about their health or other consequences and other people choose not to do so. As smoking is a personal option, non-smokers should be respected in their option of not smoking, and not have to breathe smokers smoke. For non-smokers, the smoke produced by smokers is uncomfortable and not very healthy for them or their children. Scientific research has demonstrated that non-smokers in smoking areas become passive smokers. This is worse than being a smoker, because your defences are not used to smoking, so you are not only exposed to the dangers of smoking but these are increased.As you have choosen not to smoke, you have also choosen not to develope the same diseases or results of smokering. Even though, I would like smoking in public places to be illegal. I think that there should be places habilitated for them where they can smoke. It's not fair for a non-smoker to breather the smoke he/she is not smoking, but also unfair to punish them by not letting them smoke anywhere. I think that smoking in public areas should be illegal as a question of respect for other people. If I do not wish to smoke, I don't want to breathe it either and not smoking in public areas is a way of respecting my option and other peoples option. As I think that respect is mutual their should also be places for smokers to smoke because smoking becomes an addiction and as an addiction they need to smoke. If they are during many hours in a public places in some moment they will have to need to smoke and they will have to do it somewhere. Habilitating places for them would resolve the problem and help understanding between smokers and non-smokers. And maybe why not help them not to smoke if they have to go to another place to do so.
One of the essential values to make things easier in our communities are respect and tolerance, and for that, smoking should be banned in public places, since there's a high number of non-smokers in our society. I myself am a kind of compulsive smoker, and as a smoker I get frustrated when I'm not allowed to smoke in places such as airports or university buildings. However, as a person who lives in communities, I support such prohibition. Smokers enjoy having cigarrettes while drinking a hot cup of coffee, or while going out, but there're plenty of people who don't smoke. And it's not only a question of habits, but also a question of health. Many people suffer from asthma or other similar breathing dissease, and they cannot be in pubs or discos because they find it hard to breath due to the smoke that is condensed in the air. Sportsmen and sportswomen can't either afford being in a closed place where people is continually smoking- It's comprehensible, not everybody likes the taste of cigarrettes- If you're a person whose life, hobbies and proffession goes around a particular sport, for sure that the smell of tobaccoo and the breathing of its smoke is nothing but a barrel to achieve their success in such sport. Illegalisation in a country like Spain will be a difficult matter. It's a country in which habits-specially smoking ones- have been strongly rooted. Appart from that, spanish tobacco company, Tabacalera, moves great quantities of money, perhaps with multimillonary annual incomes, of which the national government is given a part. And for this reason, prohibition of smoking in public places will be a very very slow process here. However, changes have been produced little by little. Who could have imagined 3 or 4 generations before our that there would be restaurants wiht sections for smokers and non-smokers. Who would think that smoking in planes or trains would no longer be allowed? But, in fact, it is happening. Many habitual smokers won't be quite happy with this idea, but, to say something, it's a problem of habits, as I've already said. In british airports you're not allowed to smoke, and for a spanish, who is used to smoke everywhere, is something stupid and frustrating. I think that british used to think the same some years ago when the law illegalised smoking in public areas. But they got used, and if they could, why not us?