The marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because every human being should have the same rights, and everybody has the right to be happy. A relationship just concers to the persons involved on it, so if two men or two women love each other, they don't provoke a damage on the others around them, at least they make another couple to split up to get a partner. In my opinion, those persons who don't allow them to get married, that stigmatise them for doing so are people whose lives are boring and without sense, because if you are happy, and you've gat all you need in life to be comfortable, you won't worry wether your neighbour gets married with a man or a women. It has nothing to do with you as long as they don't try to flirt with you or your mate. Many people say that they wouldn't like to see a family of gays leading the same life they do because it is unnatural and offensive and many of them have fear that if their children saw that situation they could be badly influenced and become gay aswell. And that's exactly the same thing which they argue about gays and lesbians adopting children; they think that their children would be gays aswell. But in my opinion you are born with your sexuality, there's no influence on how you fell or love. These people will probably have been born in a family of heterosexual people and they are gays. It is not a matter of bringing up but of nature. They say, aswell, that those children will be isolated by the others because their parents aer not the "normal type", but those who say such a thing, should worry about bringing up their children and educate them to love and respect the others, never to insult or discriminate the neighbour. If children are that bad is because their parents are exactly the same way they are. Adults must teach children to treat the gays as the thing they are: human beings. If we all respect each other, we all can be happy.
I think it should be allowed, at least civil marriages. First of all, because it must be a right the fact of free election of your partner. The Government must give the same economic help to these couples that they give to heterosexual couples, basically because they are paying their taxes like every couple. I think also that it is time to stop this kind of prosecution; we live in the 21st century, a time where we are always speaking about 'human rights', a time where we should not stigmatise any human being. It is also time to say 'enough' to the Catholic Church. It is an undeniable fact that they need to modernise their institution and begin to think which is the option they are going to choose: on the one hand, expell there Catholic homosexuals from Christianity as they have been doing until today or on the other hand, let them get married and do not be a hypocrite institution. I even think that homosexual couples should have the possibility of adopting children. One of the reasons is that every child should have home, independently of the sex choice of their parents. In this respect, the Catholic Church should stop its message of encouraging couples to have their own children and change it by another one recommending couples to take a poor child. In conclusion, I think that both HOMOSEXUAL MARRIAGES and ADOPTION BY HOMOSEXUAL COUPLES should be allowed; not only that, if these rights were forbidden, we, the heterosexuals, will have the obligation of taking the streets and be side by side with homosexuals. If we allow the negation of rights to anyone, we can be the next to suffer it.
As we know, the marriage of persons of the same sex has always been a controversial topic in our society. In fact, a national debate was opened in our country, when the Spanish Government decided to pass a law to allow homosexual people to marry. Several sectors of diferent social protected and showed their disagreement about this point. They considered the marriage of persons of the same sex as something unnatural, mainly because this new right was supposed to attempt to the estructure and values of the traditional family. As we have mentioned before the law was really controversial at the time: Nowadays, things seem to be bit different and people seem to be more tolerant concerning this point. However, there are some groups who disagree about this idea. To my mind, this situation is absolutely anormal. First of all, we have to consider that the homosexual people should have the same rights as heterosexual people. According to the basic laws, all citizens are equal and discrimination because of race or any other question is totally stupid. Unfortunately, discrimination exist in our society, mainly because of our ignorance and the lack of respect between individuals that we contribute to create in some cases. In fact, people seem to be perfectly aware of the problem but sometimes we act in a different way. Several points dealing with the homosexual marriage have been really controversial. Most of people consider that homosexuals are not prepared to "have" children, that is, they consider that this couples should not have the right to adopt children. It is commonly said that they are not suitable so children are going to suffer more than with heterosexual parents. The basis pilars of the traditional family are supposed to be damaged because of the new laws and the Church has manifested its ideas in several ocasions. Personally, I think that homosexuals and heterosexuals should have the same rights as citizens in our country. The idea that a child is going to suffer because of their parents sexual condition is absolutely absurd. People should try to be more open and respect all option.