Why not? In my opinion, this is just a matter of education. If we had been educated in the same-gender couples society, we couldn’t have any doubt about it. And I think that as much is a society developed, much better will be the understanding in front of this marriages. In example, the Netherlands, it appears to be an opened society with opening minds; they were the first fighting for same sex marriages that got it. In Spain it will be quite difficult that society accept it because they are to closed to do it. We can see it everyday on TV or in the press, but our society is still thinking that the model they have ever seen, a pair man-woman, is the best we can have. About same-sex couples having children, I think that is also the same. I think many times what will I do if I wouldn’t have a husband and it’s better two of the same sex than one alone because boys and girls need mother and father figure in their lifes. But on the other hand, I have many friends that grew up with one of the members of the couple and they have been good persons with a normal behaviour. Another point of view is the one of the Catholic Church, I think they are not living the real life, they stopped their minds some centuries ago. They should refresh the way they think and don’t give their opinion about this kind of marriages. In sume, I am in favour with those marriages.
I think that it depends really on the situation and specially the place where it should be illegal. If we are talking about a bar or a restaurant we should take into account the three parts involved in this problem. One of them is the owner of the business. I am quite sure that the prohibition of smoking in bars in Ireland will make very angry the owners of the pubs, as they will probably lose part of the clientele. It this case it should depend on the proprietors’ decision whether to allow or not to smoke in their bar. Then we have the smoker, the person that goes to the pub to have a beer, have a little chat with friends and smoke a cigarette as a social thing. On the other side we have the non-smoker person that has to bear with a crowded room full smoke. For them it is also a matter of good manners. In some countries the solution of having different areas for smokers and non-smokers on the restaurants seems to work. Then, there are all the other public places: banks, hospitals, schools... At work it seems to be different as it is not a place you go to enjoy yourself. At least you choose whether to go to a pub or not. For some people to make such a fuss about this matter is a response of a big mediate campaign. For others it is quite the contrary, this campaign has been done to stop the increase of people that smoke. I am neither in favour nor against smoking in public places but I do sometimes wonder why should be illegal to do something that it is legal.
I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed, first of all because we are free to decide what we want or which is the person we want to love. It is allowed in some places, here in Spain in Catalunya, and I think it’s a big step to open our minds, to understand: other points of view of living the sexual life and to know this people and respect them. It’s difficult to understand and to explain this situation, specially if I don’t know their daily life is. I am sure about one thing: they are HUMANS like you, and me, and all, and they have RIGHTS in the same way for being able to make their dreams come true and getting married as all of us. Talking about our RIGHTS, the free expression, the freedom are very important ones. And I think that our sexual option is a consequence of it. We are free to choose, and to express it. To repress our feelings or what we want to do it’s too bad, and it can bring us bad consequences. If nobody is being affected because of the decisition of homosexual persons, I don’t see the problem with leaving them getting married. I don’t know if what I think is right or wrong; who knows it? But in my very personal opinion, people has to be allowed to bet married with persons of their same sex, and everybody should understand them, and leave them to live their own life as they want.
I am quite sure about the fact that if you look up the word ‘love’ or even ‘feeling’ in a good dictionary there would be no reference or relation to a particular sex. Feelings or love can be found inside any human being without restrictions, so, why can we restrict the object of the feeling or of love to a person of a sex opposite to the one of the subject who loves or feels? Men and women are able to think and feel in the same way and nobody has enough power to indicate them what do they have to do. Furthermore, according to the Spanish Constitution all human beings are equal, having the same rights and also the same duties; so that, if we understand getting married as a right and if we add the fact that all human beings are free to choose, anybody would have to be allowed to choose the person with whom they would share their life. On the other hand, I believe that people should change their minds and forget the idea that makes them understand getting married, or in other words, putting a signature in a paper, as something so important. From my point of view a signature does not make stronger links between two people, does not increase feelings, does not imply that you are going to give without thinking about what you are going to receive. Do people think that they are selling their lifes or even their whole existence to their lovers? It is quite difficult, even impossible for me to introduce myself inside the mind of married people: what are their values? Why did they choose this option? Was it just a mere tradition in their families? But ignoring all those questions for which I would never find one answer, if I had to make up a theory to explain the taste of people for getting married I would come to the conclusion that we are so insecure, that we are so afraid of feeling alone that we look for a strong link, something difficult to destroy among people, we want to be sure that we are going to have at least one person next to us for all our lifes. So that, and to sum up, all people should have the same opportunities, marriage would be allowed for everybody but maybe after visiting a pair of psychologists to clearing up our minds.
To prohibit smoking in public places is important, we could see everyday information that talkabout this injurious habit. Most people in our society is concerned about the problem, but they’re still some who keep on breaking the rules. It isn’t difficult to see someone smoking a cigarrette on a bus even when is prohibit, or next to a pregnant women, even though we know it may be dangerous for her baby. The sanitary authorities are making great efforts in order to help people to leave that unhealthy habit, they promove special courses and give prizes as trips I can understand those people who thinkwe’re hunting smokers, they have special places in restaurants, planes, trains... But as I see it, we need to preserve our health. I have not chosen smoking,so I have the right of breathing pure air. Their freedom ends where it starts mine. In my opinion it is neccesary to forbid smoking in public places, but perhaps making sure that the law is respected is even more neccesary. Nowadays they’ve got the chance and the help to leave smoking, we can’t do more.
This is a very controversial theme, because there are very different opinions about, and that problem can affect the rights of the people non smoker, and as well, of people who smoke, because people non smoker people should have the right to inhale pure air and they shouldn’t have to suffer the effects of the toxic air the smokers cause, such as lungs’ cancer and heart’s infart, that is demostrated that are caused by nocive effects of smoking, and the fact that the smokers made the clean air become dirty make the non-smoker inhale it and have the effects it does on smokers. It could be a really nice question to ask about the fact that the industries make the world’s air get dirty, but this isn’t the theme we’re talking about today. Smoking shouldn’t be allowed, because, such as cocaine or crack, is very bad for health, it could cause people die, but the problem to stop allowing it is the fact that it generates really nice money, and it wouldn’t healp a country to stop it while other countries keep allowing it, this problem is similar to weapons, no one country wants to stop getting them, but if one does, it would be an easy attack point for others.