I think the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because they are persons, and if the marriage of persons of the diferent sex is good for all people, should be it of the persons of the same sex, too. If someone do not be secure with persons of the diferent sex, if one person do not like other person of other sex but on the other hand that person fall in love with person of the same sex, why they not would get marriage? In My opinion, people that said the marriage of persons of the same sex shouldn’t be allowed, they said that because they feel nervous with this people. I think that those people thinkthat they are more important or more intelligent that persons get marriage with persons of the same sex and this would not be. My religion, Catolicism, isn’t agree with marriage of persons of the sme sex, they considered it inmoral, in there opinion is something innatural. Maybe the most people aren’t agree with that marriage because they are very religious and they have got fearxx. In the most countries the marriage of persons of the same sex isn’t allowed. Here, in Spain, those marriages are allow but since a few montsh. To conclusion, in my opinion the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed.
From my point of view the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed in Spain and all over the world because it's a natural situation provocated by the humanity and we can't avoid that although we don't like it. The unique possibility it's starting to assume it and act according this. In one hand, we should realize in what world we're living and break with the traditional stereotypes. Spain is a catolic country that's why catolic people don't understand the marriage of persons of the same sex. They don't want to break the structure of the traditional family because they aren't used to taking decisions by themselves. The church and the Catolicism say that the marriage can only made by persons of different sex because it's the natural condition of the humanity. But who are they to say a thing like this??? Heterosexual people? Repressived people? Traditional people? In the other hand, they're too many people who should have the same opportunities like others ones. Nowadays, the freedom to choose what you want or what you need is the most important thing for us. However, there's another main feature in all this and it's the important of the love. It's very difficult to find the appropriate person to spend all your life and if you get it why you should be worry about his or her sex. The happiness is something more deep.
Our education is suppose to be a way of working in the real life, but the truth is that you finish your studies and then starts a new education. I have just finished my physiks degree. When you finish it, you think "oh, fantastic, I can work!" and then the reality sticks you. The first thing is doing the curriculum vitae. "OK, fine", it takes you a long time, but you do it. Then you go to the INEM office, and they ask you what studies you have. OK, no problem. The INEM will not find you a job so you don't care. The next step is the Internet, and that is the moment you realize, you are not prepared for working. You are looking for a job where experience is not required because you don't have it, but the problem is not the experience only, because you have to know a lot of computer languages that haven't been teached to you. My degree has a lot of practical subjects, but in none of these I learn a word about what I am asked for in most jobs. Some of thing you must know to go into jobs world are very specific, but most of are not. So after being working hard for getting the degree you start again, this time you have the degree but you don't have the knowkledge so you know what you must do: you must spend a year learning, for being teacher: the CAP. If you want to became a doctor: you prepare the "Tesina" and the "Tesis". If you want to work in a firm: Any kind of computering languages and programs. In the most of cases: Doing a master and spending more money that you don't have. Some people do practise in a firm in a way that the firm teaches what they need for working and then they give them a job. And after that I ask myself: Why on hearth did nobody teach me what I really need? I'm sure that I'm lucky in having a degree, maybe my jobs conditions are not good, but if I don't have it, they would be worst. I think the main problem is that the university degrees are not planned for working, just for learning. You must learn a lot of different subjects you will never find out where is the use or the interest. A friend of mine says that a degree is no more than a obstacles race for getting a "medal": a degree I studyed a degree that has a lot of practical subjects and I have this problem, but what does it happens in the degrees that don't have it?The rates of unemployed people are there. A lot of people is working in something that they haven't learn in their degree and a FP studient is better qualified than a university student in at least half time and much less studied.
After being in Santiago for about five years studying English Philology, I totally agree with the fact that this degree is basically theoretical. Yes, Palacios, it is theoretical because we were not taught from the practical point of view. Thousands of books to read just before the exam without taking time for thinking and analysing them carefully. English Philology students don’t know literature in depth and that makes them to go abroad in order to get the language skills. As far as I remember, the last course of English lasted a couple of hours a week, so I did have to go to a private academy in Santiago to keep up with my English. Just if you think about how many times we presented any topic orally, you would realize that English Philology is not good for practical aims. As far as the teaching is concerned, I would assure that we are not well-prepared. We need more didactic background and CAP course is very little. On the contrary, we’d rather make this situation a bit more positive by listing a few tips which may be useful to take into account and they are as follows: - You should make students to think about the current tendencies about methodological methods which I know you did in Perspectivas Metodológicas but only one subject is not enough. - You should make students to talk about any of the units of the programme in front of the other students as a real class. - More English language practice is strongly neccessary as me myself and many other classmates are still in advanced level trying to pass the Proficiency Exam and Oposiciones about Secondary Education. - More things need to be said but I don’t have enough space, so I am 28 years old and there’s no POST for me.
Smoking is an old deal that nowadays has gained much actuallity. This is a bad habit that makes great damage to health, as the doctors usually claim; but it wasn't until recently that people got really concerned about this problem, and so did Government. The government has been taking in the last years different measures to stop people from smoking, the latest one in which they are thinking about is making illegal smoking in public places. Great polemic has risen because of this government's proposal. Firstly, smokers believe that it goes against people's freedom, because it implies a restriction for a certain group of people not letting them behave in their usual way. Connected with this, special places for smokers are being available in some public places. Although it seems a good measure, smokers understand it as a discrimination and moreover, the bad image the media gives about smokers increase this bad feeling. On the other side, non-smokers also claim for their right to be in public place cleared of smokers. As they have decided not to smoke, they expect not to suffer the bad consequences of other's smoke (it is believed that if you are next to a person smoking, you're also smoking part of his cigarrette). In this sense, they would probably agree with making smoking illegal in public places. Even though, many of them could possibly think that it's a better measure to enable special places for smokers, so that they can go to the same places as the non-smokers. To conclude, I'd like to say that I'm a non-smoker person and, having in account both sides of the problem, I think that it's not fair making smoking illegal in public places, as everybody has the right to decide where he wants to go.
I finished my degree three years ago, and some of my friends have finished this year, so this is a question we were talking a lot recently. I think it has a difficult solution, is very easy, in a chat with friends, to talk about the things that are wrong and the way to solv it, but to be able to do it can be really difficult. In one hand, you have to learn a lot of things in just five years! It's imposible to learn everything about something, it doesn't matter what, in such a few time. I mean, no one is able to learn in five years what a proffesional learns in thirty years of work. So a degree, must shows you the bases, the main things and how to solv the problems you will find in your work, and I asure they will be a lot . Therefore you have to learn a lot of information in a few time and I don't know another way, appart from studying, to learn this amount of things. In the other hand, I don't agree with the method of a teacher speaking an hour long and the students writting what he is saying without understanding what they are writting. I'm sure that there are better ways of doing things. To me, the most important job of a teacher is to make the students understand what he or she is teaching. In conclusion, it's difficult to change things, I know, but maybe a mix of both ways would be better. I remember teachers saying the first day of the class, that it was a difficult subject and everyone will fail if we didn't study really hard. I think they were wrong, I think they were bad teacher because they didn't know how to make us understand what they were teaching us.