I think that most university degrees are very theoretical, so students finish their careers with a lack of acknowledge. Otherwise I don't think that the spanish university degrees were valueless. In my opinion, our students have a strong theoretical acknowledgement that can help them to find a job, but perhaps there were a lack of practical in the careers that they are forced to improve. We must center the reasons of this problems. Firstly we have the longest careers in Europe, but it seems like all this time were useless. Are we really spending all this years studing unuseful things? I don't think so. I think that the point of view in other countries is different. They explain a more practical lections and reduces the contents comparing with our careers. The students learn less, but what they learn is useful to the jobs they wer going to develop. In Spain, a university student learn a lot of things that would make him or her capable of developing a great number of jobs. What is better? Secondly, society has been changing so fast in the latest years that the rigid structures in the University were not able to change with this speed. Sometimes I feel like teachers and students were amazing and wandering, wondering what's happening or what's wrong in University. And worse is that noone knows where are University going. That's is the third great problems. Suddenly, a change is necessary! Thus politics began to change without thinking, against all - teachers and students. All people in University became crazy and desoriented but finally nothing changed. Noone want to take serious change, so we change a couple of things and feel calm. Summing up, there are a lot of problems at the University. I think that the most important is make a serious revision of the contents of each subject and even of the subjects of each careers, offer a good study of what the society is needing.
Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. They are therefore of very little value. At first, I would say that I am studying Magisterio, because I would like to become an English teacher. I don't know how is this theme in any other university degree, but I can talk about the one that I am studying. Along the three years that occupates this university degree, students have near three months of practical situations. I mean, during the second year we have a month and a half to stay in a Primary School and during the third year we have another month and a half. I have learnt more during those three months that I have been working in a school with "real teachers" that during the three years that I have been receiving theoretical in class. When I went to have my first experience in a school I wasn't prepared at all because nobody at university tought me how to be in front of twelve or fifteen boys and girls waiting for you to teach them something interesting. The first thing I thought was that I would never reach my goal, that it was to become a good school teacher. Most part of my university subjects don't prepare students for the real world, even more, I would say that most of them don't help students to learn what they have to learn for the real life, what is suppose to do. Finally I would say that as my case, there would be a lot more, but I only can talk about what I know, and I think that most university degrees don't prepare students for real world.
Most university degrees are only theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. For example, in Spain there are many degrees that are only theoretical. Many students who are studing a degree they have only theoretical classes and they have few practical classes. They should revindicate their rights for having more practical classes. But the problem of not having practical classes comes when a student finishes his degree and he starts to work. In that moment, the student realizes that the theories that he was learning during the degree were not useful for everyday life. Because in a job you should use the theories that you learnt before but you have to apply them to practical projects. Nowadays, there are many degrees where there is no practice. For example, degrees such as philosophy, law, science ... This degrees should have many practice, because a person who is learning a language should have many native teachers, and grants to go to the country where it speaks this language. For example, in law they should work in offices with lawers to know how they work ... So, every degree should have more practice than theory and in that way the students finish the degree in a useful way and they should be ready to work.
Nowadays it is forbidden to smoke in many public places. Every smoker has to try to respect this but I know that it is quite difficult for them. I am a non-smoker but as I could perceive in my surroundings it is quite difficult for smokers to give up this habit. On the one hand smoke should be forbidden in public places because the smoke affects everyone. I can’t stand staying in a pub if there is no air-conditioning. When I go out I find myself with many difficulties to breathe. This is one of the reasons why I think it should be forbidden. However, I know that if we passed this new law it would bring many problems to our society, specially economic problems and many factories would go bankrupt. A good idea would be to have different areas for smokers and non-smokers though we know that if we did that in every place it would seem like we were different species. In the train you could see this example. Sometimes being a non-smoker you have to try to sacrifice yourself in order to stay with your friends. If I think that it would not be a bad thing to prohibit smoking it’s because in some countries like Ireland this is a fact and it is giving very positive results. Also in Madrid there are many pubs in which is not allowed and in spite of this many people go to these places. This would be a way to make the people conscious that smoking is a very destructive vice and that we have to try to smoke less if we want to improve our lives. We have to try to make them face that they can be independent from this vice and that they can have a good time without smoking. Doing this we would also have in our society less young smokers.
The prohibition of smoking in all public places is a good idea from the point of view of medicine, although most people reject this thought. It is clear that people who earn money with tobbacco will dislike this idea, because if people can not smoke in almost no place, they will leave tobbacco aside. This, of course, will suppose a great loss of money and of tobbacco itself. This change would not be immediately, but little by little. People who have starded smoking many years ago, probably would continue smoking in streets and in their houses, but it is true that the new generations of teenagers will not start smoking and it is a good point, at least, so as to improve our health. I’m sure that smokers do not like at all this idea although they know that it is a possible solution to a problem that affets people from all over the world. I think that it is a good idea but it should take place in the course of several years, not suddenly. At the same time, I think that if finally they do not forbide us to smoke in all public places, there should be some places free of smoke.
The notion of love is the main base in the union of persons for the rest of their lives. Other factors like economic, political, etc. can have importance but never the same as the love. If the love is the main factor, why people of the same sex cannot join their lives if it is that they want? In religious terms we should respect the fact that catholicism doesn’t allow this kind of marriage, but they must also know that gay people don’t want to marriage themselves under the catholic rith but also under the civil one that gives them the same rights and obligations as the heterosexual marriages. But I also think that gay people should know where should they have the limit of their rights, I’m referring to the adoption of childrens by gay couples: I think that all the people have the right of be father or mother, but also the childrens that doesn’t have the enough sense to think by themselves should have the right of that someone thinks by them and give the opinion that a children doesn’t grow in the same way being son of a heterosexual couple as a homosexual couple. In my opinion the society should wait before allow this kind of adoptions because we don’t know how a boy or a girl is going to grow in a atmosphere so different as the actual ones. I’m not saying that two men or two women are not capable of educate a boy in a good way but I’m not sure if all the society is going to accept it. I’m talking, for example, of the jokes and mocks that a boy can suffer in his school by the simply fact of having two fathers, we know how cruel children can be, and the person that is going to suffer more allways is the boy. Is only a small example but we don’t know also if a couple of fathers or mothers is going to educate a boy even better than an heterosexual couple, that also can happen. Is for that, for the fact that we don’t know how this kind of adoptions are going to be that we should wait and walk slowly in this sense. But of course, if Paco loves Javier or Rosa loves Eva they should could married between themselves, and have the same rights and obligations as a conventional marriage.