I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and there are a lot of reasons for doing it. First, smoking causes terrible injures in people’s health and anybody would have to suffer them if he/she doesn’t smoke. Smoking is a personal election, so smokers shouldn’t impose their election to the people that are around them. This is specially true in the case of pregnant women or ill people who cannot breath smoke in any case. In my opinion if smoking was illegal that would have very positive effects for everybody. One of the positive effects would be that some smokers would stop smoking so they could improve their health and their economy. Another positive effect would be that the state could save a lot of money in illnesses that are closely related with smoking like heart attacks and some kinds of cancer. At last a lot of people who don’t smoke could live of work in a clean ambient and they wouldn’t have to suffer the consequences of another people’s vices. However, there are a lot of people, most of them smokers, who say that forbidding smoking in public places would suppose a persecution against smokers. It’s funny that smokers say that because they are the ones that impose their smoke to the other people. Another reason that smokers argue is that if smoking is so bad, (it) tobacco should be banned. The reason why tobacco isn’t banned it’s cultural and because of traditional reasons. Also, smoking in private don’t causes injures to anybody. At last, for all these reason I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and if that happened everybody could live in a more civilized and cleaner world.
Should the marriage of persons of different sex be allowed? Is there any doubt about the answer? What are all of us? We are persons, and everyone should choose without problems the way in which he or she wants to love. People think that everything have to be stablished, everything have to follow the same pattern, and that is the great mistake because every person is a world. Inside our own world, we can share or have things in common with others and in this way, by similitudes, we tend to be and live with people who make us happy, or good, or whatever. Who says there is something estrange love between persons of the same sex, does not care real feelings, because that is what is really important. If a couple like this want to marry, why they should have problems? They would not be causing problems to anybody, so, let's go! The problem here are the prejudices, church, ... society and cultural points of view, that are afraid from they don't know. I am not able to understand why this would be a problem so I can't argue in a best way.
In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal and in fact I think it would be so in few years as in other countries. Since I am smoker it would be expected from me not to think so. The question is that everyone can chose whether to smoke or not but being it allowed in public places many non-smokers have no other option that to become passive ones. I take as an example the situation in Ireland where smoking in public places have been banished a year ago. At first this can be seen as an abusive measure but there are many factors to take into account. The 1st one are obviously non-smokers who can go everywhere, even to pubs or discos enjoying a healthy enviroment. This is even more important when speaking about workers who cannot chose to go to a place depending on whether smoking is allowed or not. I didn't see this so clear till this year when I was working in Dublin as a waitress in a pub. Even when the place was crowded there was no that feeling as in Spanish pubs where the atmosphere is so heavy that there is difficult to see or even to breath. The 2nd factor are the smokers themselves because even if they decide to keep on smoking the number of cigarettes will be diminished since they have to get out the place they are to take one.
When I started to study in the university I thought that at the end I could be a person with a lot of knowledge, instead of this I feel that I didn't learnt too much in three years, and the most of the things that I know now I learnt it by myself, travelling, reading and looking for information about the subjects that I was interested. In the case of english think that is always better to have lessons because the most important it's to practise but when my friends and I went to Ireland we discovered that our level of english it wasn't so good and we weren't prepared to have a conversation with the people of the country. On the other hand have studies it's not meaning that in the future we'll have a work, at least not the job in what we are interested. Go to the University it's an opportunity that we have to value positivity and; anyway, it's better that don't have nothing, but it's not the places that I had imagined, there are a lot of theoretical lessons and the practises that we do aren't enought, and there are not always a relationship between the subjects. I don't want to left the faculty because I really enjoy study but expectatives haven't been completed. I have not choice, I mean, the best thing that I could do now it's study at university (I really like it) but if I could I would do more that one change, starting to thinking about what are the mistakes of the system, what are the things that people needs, what are that people want's and what are the things that the world (specially the laboral world) want about us.
From my point of view, the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed (Fortunately, it is allowed right now) because, in my opinion, to be homosexual of lesbian is not a crime, and I think that they can have the right of marriage. We live in the 21st century, not in the 8th century. This is supposed to be a progressist and laic society where we have finished with all this stupid and intolerant christian concepts of what is right and what is "against nature". I would say to those people who don't like the marriage between homosexuals: "They have committed any crime to not have the possibility and the right to marriage?" Marriages of people of the same sex are as normal as "heterosexual" marriages, and now is the time of destroy the traditional and rotten concept of marriage and family, because nobody can judge a person for his/her sexual option they can be good husbands/wifes and good parents as the other people. In short, marriages of persons of the same sex should be allowed always.
Nowadays, most of the university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. This is a very important matter, because we have to understand that many people spend between 3 and 5 years (or more) studying something that will decide his/her future; and if that degree does not prepare them for the real world, all the time, the money and the efforts of those years would be totally unuseful. So we have to think about it, and we have to see that the future of the students it is not a game. But if one degree has more theory than practise, we do not should think that it is of very little value. It is only that it is not well-defined, and we should contribute to the solution of this problem.