I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed. In the course of time institutions such as church has learnt us that the marriage has to be with a person who has a different sex. It supports this idea with its principal text, the Bible. Our ancestors were educated with moral and religious principles given by the church, and this kind of marriage was considered the normal way of linked with other, or the only way allowed by the main institutions. The Church had the power and people wer obligued to accept these rules. The goverment was linked with the church and it followed its rules too. Many times the head of church and goberment was the same person. In the course of time many changes took place, many advances were inserted in out society. The church, little by little, was los the power, and many people don't follow its rules. Nowadays, society is, supposedly, more advanced and it hasn't a lot of prohibitions. Society is more "free". People can say their thoughts, their sexuality and nobody has the right to judge. But this is the theory. The fact is the sexuality is one of the basic topic in our society and everybody is interested in the sexuality of his/her neighbour. When someone doesn't follow the rule, this person is judged. (The rule, the pattern follow or learns by the church). I think that nobody has the right to judge the others. Everybody has to have the right to choose his/her partner and the possibility to marry with him/her. The sexuality is less important. The most important is "love", the less important is if he/she marries with a man or a woman. I think that the question if the marriage of the same sex should be allowed musn't be done because this kind of marriage should be a normal thing in our lives. Because the important in the marriage isn't the sex of components, the important is the feelings which both parts show. Human beings haven't the capacity to choose or to judge about the life of the others. Human beings aren't born with any kind of right to the others. Human beings must think about their own feelings, thoughts, keep respect with the others, they must find their happiness without disturb the others.
In my opinion, homosexual marriage should be allowed because of one simple reason: homosexuals are like the black people of the sixties in the U.S.A. They have their rights to live like "normal" people because there can be love between two people of the same sex. Personally, I'm not concerned about the fact that they can adopt children. If that children live in a good home there's no problem. In fact, scientific works about this topic demonstrates that a child can live without any traumatic behaviour. In other sort of things, I have to say that this topic doesn't scare me too much. I think it's a battle that was won from the beginning. The Gay movement is a snowball that grows and grows and nor the Church nor other movements are going to stop it. If society is not prepared for homosexual marriage, society must prepare itself for it. It's time to forget the traditional meaning of marriage and understand modern times. Homosexual people exits from the Classic Greece so humanity had enough time to bear it.
Smoking in public places should be illegal because non-smokers are usually bothered with cigarette's smoke, and I think that it is not fair that they had health problems if they don't smoke. Everybody knows that smoking provoques health problems such as cancer, and it is not just that people who didn't chose the option of smoking had to be at hospital only for being in public places, such as bars, pubs, trains, discos and so on, being all these places where it is supposed that everybody can stay in. Apart form this, dangerous situations can be created due to the presence of smokers in public places such as bars or discos, I mean, for example a fire can start because a cigarette is near of a curtain or of something made of paper, and non-smokers can become victims of a situation created by a smoker. People don't use to think on this kind of things, but they can really happen, and as a matter of fact, anybody can see this kind of news in a newspaper or on the television, where for example many people die when a fire starts in a disco when someone is smoking inside it. It is also necessary to think that when a person is smoking there can be a pregnant woman near, and that this smoker is causing sever problems to a little child that can not defend himself, or to an asthmatic person whose life can depend on the cigarette of another person. In brief, from my point of view smoking in public places shouldn't be allowed because smoking is a personal option, and people that don't chose this option don't have to pay the consequences of other persons' vices.
I am not totally in favor of not smoking in public places, but I think that there should be places for smoking and no smoking. For example in a restaurant there should be a section for no smoking people and another section, apart from that, for smoking people. In the case of the aeroplanes, I think it is right no to be allowed to smoke; but in the airport we have to have a section for the smokers, because we have to understand that after a trip of X hours, the anxiety is bigger and they want to smoke, so in that place they could satisfy themselves and people who does not like the smel of cigarretes could not necesarilly pass through that smoking area. In the case of banks or administration offices, I am in favour of no smoking because, it would not be able to divide them in areas, and it would be problematic. In any case a normal person goes to the bank for some specific reason and would not spend too much time, and then he could smoke. For the employers, well, I am in favour of not smoking in working hours, they could maybe smoke in their lunch-time, and when you get a job you know if you could or could not smoke, so you already know with what you are dealing. In open spaces like parks, everyone should be able to smoke because, it is a different atmosphere. In conclusion, I think that there are places where should be completely forbidden, and others where there should be smoking and no smoking areas.
The aim of this composition is related to the marriage of persons of the same sex. Marriage is not only forever (as the Church says) but also it is accompanied by some rights. From my point of view, if people who love each other can choose marrying or not, why cannot homosexual people do the same? Marriage is, in my opinion, a question of love: I love somebody, I want to marry him and there is no problem because the society and all the institutions allow me to marry. Well, I love a woman, I want to marry her. Stop! Because some people could say that we are indecent, a priest will never marry us and other things like these. Am I guilty of loving a woman? Marriage, a difficult decision but it's more difficult if society doesn't give you the opportunity of doing although marriage is the thing that you desire. I think that homosexual people should have the same rights as heterosexual people because all people are human-beings according to God.
This is a very important topic that people should take into account because tobacco is bad for public health. In my opinion smoking in public places should be illegal, because for non-smoking people this could be a problem, because non-smoking people usually are pasive smokers. The smoke is bad for children and even for ill people. Tobacco is bad for smoker people and for those who are near them. In some places smoking is illegal like in hospitals, but I think that is better to make it illegal in every where. If you want to smoke, do it in your house, because in your house you don't disturb other people. Nowadays, is very common to find somebody smoking in a bank, in the bus, in a bar, etc, but if you ask to a non-smoking person this situation could affect them. I don't smoke and I don't care if people smoke in public places if they don't disturb me with the smoke, because some people who smoke are unpolite and put the cigarrete near you or throw the smoke in your face, etc, other people are polite and don't disturb, but in general ways I think that is better to make it illegal, if you want to smoke do it in your house. I understand that smoke is an adition and some people need to smoke when they feel stress or depress or anxious but another people need to relax without supporting the smoke of a cigarrete.