Thinking about university degrees, I think that most of students agree on the idea that nowadays universities offer a kind of degrees that have mainly theoretical contents, and so, the practical part has little importance or it has less importance than it should have. Taking as starting point my own experience, I can say that in my degree, which is English Philology, most of the contents are only theoretical which is paradoxical if you think that most of people are going to focus their future on the teaching of English as a foreign language either in high schools, in universities or giving particular classes; so, why don’t we have any subject focused on the way of teaching students a foreign language? There are other degrees in which students have some hours in which they have to go to a school and they became teachers for a while, and that’s all before having their degree finished, but that happens only in this case, but not in my degree. I think that this kind of practical contents are necessary, because if you are not taught how to share your knowledge with your students, It is very easy that you do not find the way to explain concepts that you find very obvious, or maybe you will explain them in a way that would not be adequate for students; and if you do not know how to teach what you know it is not important the great amount of concepts that you can know; for example, if a person that is studying medicine does not put in practice all the concepts achieved during the degree, I don’t think that once he has the title he can say that he’s a doctor, because he’s not going to be able of dealing with ill people in spite of all his theoretical knowledge. I think that practice is even the most important part of a degree, because if you go to the real world you can find that there are a lot of people capable of doing their work very well without having a specific theoretical preparation for it , because practice has taught them how to make work better and how to work in the easiest way possible, but we can also find the other way round: we can see that there are a lot of people that have finished their degrees and that are not able of facing their new work without the help of that experienced people. Taking into account all this, I think that we are not going to be prepared for facing the label market once we have ended our degree because we lack the experience that we are going to be asked; because with this kind of educational system is not easy to fit the prototype of worker that the companies want : young , well prepared and with practical experience; so if you adopt a very critical point of view you will probably end by saying that this kind of theoretical degrees are of a very little value.I agree with this topic because I am studying English Philology and all is theoretical and it does not prepare us for the real life. We only have some real work when we do the C.A.P. and it is only for a couple of months…and this is not time enough. I think that one of the degrees that most helps students for the real life is “magisterio” because my sister is studying this degree and she has practice classes that consist in going to schools and helping the teachers that are working there. She also works in the class with the students as if she was the teacher and not the practice teacher….and she enjoy it. And I have said this example because I know what really happens because I have somebody near that told me her case. But I have other friends and they all share the same opinion…they feel that they are not going to be well prepared studying in the way they do and think that their degrees are too much theoretical and do not prepare them for the outside life. I do not think that the fact of introducing hundreds and hundreds of ideas, lessons, etc in ones heads helps you to be better prepared … because somebody can be a very good student but can not work correctly and somebody that does not like to study can do his/ her work correctly. I also think that a more practice class could be a very good method for encouraging people to do more things, to motivate the students to go at class, to prepare themselves better, etc. I honestly have to say that the degree that I am studying is completely different of what I thought it was going to be. I will explain myself better: when I chose this degree ( because I was not sure because I also want to study psychology) I thought it was going to be quite different: with more English lessons, more oral lessons, more practice…because the fact of studying lots of authors, studying the English history does not help you to speak English better….and if you want to be a English teacher the only lesson that can help you is the C.A.P. when you have already have finished the degree or “perspectives” and this is not enough. So I think that the degrees or most of them should be checked over again because it can be a motive for giving up studies or when you finish you notice that all what you have studied does not help you for what is waiting for you in the real life. Because finding a good job is very difficult nowadays.. there are too little good jobs for too many prepared people…it is really a competition…and only the best can win. So everybody, the university system, the government should do something to arrange the problem.This topic in my opinion is very realistic in the sense of we, the students, are not really prepared for the real world. I am going to begin talking about my career because it is about what more knowledge I have. It is true that, philology students had to do the C.A.P. to can teach in a school, but this course is not sufficient for us. During the fifth years of career we have practical classes, minimal practical classes in which above all we have to talk, but some students that are shy are not going to talk there and obviously the teacher is not going to force it to talk, because there are more students and the class is very short in time. Besides, in the university the treatment of the classes and the students is obviously again very different from the high school, because of the number of students. I know that if you are studying a career you should be sufficient coherent and mature to know your priorities and if you want to improve your English you should speak even a little. I know, by mouth of some friends that another careers are the same than mine, because in the university, in what a teacher is interested, is in giving you the main information about that career, it is normal that in a career about Law, you cannot go to a City Hall if you are not prepared theoretically first, or in an example even more obvious the Medicine career: this kind of career needs a very practical classes because in their hands ( when they be doctors ) will be our lives, and we, as a teachers, will have to explain to a group of children some information about a language, or literature ( although it can be more dangerous ). In relation to the C.A.P I think that in only three or four months is not sufficient to prepared us, and since you finish the C.A.P until you got a job you forget all that you learn and while the time passes you have less opportunities to get a job as a teacher; you want independence and you get a temporal job meanwhile you prepared oppositions and if you have the luck of getting a job, you accommodate there and think: why am I going to continue studying if I have money, a house, a boyfriend…? It is true that there are a lot of people and that all are not at the same way, but in my case that I am 26 years old I am thinking in finishing the career to can live with my boyfriend as soon as possible, and if I want do it I have to work, and I have to work in the first thing I can; of course I would like to be a teacher or something related to it and I have been thinking in giving classes to old people, because it can be more interesting. This is, in a way, treated since a point of view very subjective, but if we think in this topic since an objective point of view, I would say that in general all careers have only theoretical preparation, but although we, students, had practical classes during all the career and several hours a day, we will nor prepared for the real world. I think that until you be in the laborer world more or less two or three years you will not prepared for working on it. You will be able to do your job perfectly, but the laborer world is very hard.As the old song says “Money is the root of all evil”. I think this is a big truth. Throughout the history of mankind we find examples of people who became cruel, egotistic, and mean, only because they had a lot of money and power. I think that money is closely related to power, once you have power, you are rich (economically talking); and normally once you have money (a big amount of money), you are powerful. Many people devote their lives to earn as much money as they can get at any price. They step over other people lives and dignity because they are so blind they only think of getting rich and buy as many things as they can, they want to have the biggest house, the most expensive car, etc. In The Great Gatsby we see how people change their personality once they are rich. They are proud, cynical, hypocritical… they think they can rule other people lives, they do not care about feelings or friendship, the important thing is to be in the highest step of the social scale. Moreover the richer you are the meaner you become (the rich countries do not share their richness with the poor). From the childhood we a re worried about money. We cannot buy a car because it is too expensive, we cannot go on holidays because money is short and your parents have to pay the rent of the house, food, clothes, etc. There are a lot of examples of people who get desperate because they are not able to pay their debts. We have a close and current example in Argentina: people are starving, robbering, murdering, or killing people in order to get food or money to survive. This is provoked by money. The animal instincts we have hidden for years, while we had money, have savagely arisen because desperation has come into our lives. In this world nothing can be done if we do not have money. In Argentina the situation is so desperate that persons are now animals, they have been driven to that situation, which seems to be endless. They have gone back to older times when the exchange of things was the normal way of “buying”. This kind of situations have happened throughout the centuries. There are a lot of movies in which this topic is the main theme. For instance, ¡Qué bello es vivir!, in which the protagonist is driven to commit suicide (although at the end he is saved by an angel) because the crack of 1929 has led his bank to bankrupt. Money has led many people to commit suicide, to kill people (desperate workers who kill their former bosses because they have been fired), to kill even members of the same family (In Jude, the obscure Jude´s son kills his brothers because they do not have money to survive), etc. Although these are examples taken from literature, they reflect real situations, to which the rest of the people do not pay attention. After all, many of us think that that kind of things will never happen to us. Many people say money gives you happiness, but some people want to get as much money as they can. Sometimes we think we will never do the things we see or hear on TV, or read in newspapers. “Those people are criminals or they are totally crazy”, we would say about people who kill because they were so desperate they could not think of anything else but killing or stealing. The terrible thing is that in cases of complete desperation (we are talking about having no money at all for a long period of time, or even for a few days) people are capable of the most terrible things, because after all, we are animals (although we are supposed to be the most intelligent of the animals). Money was, is, and will be the most terrible of the diseases because there is no antidote against greediness.In the last years there has been a growing disappointment with higher education at Spanish universities. Some of the opinions even stand that university degrees are of little or no value because they don´t prepare the student for the labour market, that is, to compete on the real world. Although not every opinion is as extreme as the one mentioned it is necessary to look into the reasons of it existence. At the beginning of the 80’s a reform of the educational system lead to a sudden increase of the number of students at the universities which caused problems due to the lack of space, teachers and , generally speaking, money to cover all the university demands. Therefore, new faculties were built and also new campuses were created to satisfy the demands. All these facts made Spain one of the countries with the highest rate of university students. However , new problems appeared: now there were too many graduates for every post-actually we cannot make a sweeping statement about this fact because the offer and the demand varied greatly from one job to another. But the worst of all was to realize that there was a huge gap between what the university had taught and what the daily duties of the job demanded. It was a painful discovery for the graduates and a surprise for their employers. Sometimes it lead to the utterances of really disappointed points of view. For some years the overpopulation of the faculties was to blame for that, but now that it is over the detachment from the real world that some people experiment still remains. So, what are the reasons, then? Are the university organization to blame? The laws that rule them? The politicians that do not improve them? The teachers who are not orientated enough and therefore cannot guide the students? Is it the students who are not really so much worried to be alienated from reality and just try to have a good time as their education lasts? There are so many opinions that it is going to be difficult to find the real causes and probably even more to solve them.
As far as I am concerned the words of the old song “Money is the root of all evil” are related to our society nowadays. Society is changing very quickly. A lot of industries are being built and there is a lot of competivity between workers. In the days we are living, not everybody is happy and not everybody has a well-paid job. We can make an important distinction between rich people and middle-class people. In spite of the fact that rich people have a lot of power and money, we can say they are corrupted people: they want more and more. On the other hand middle-class people are costumed to live only with the basic things in life and they are usually happy. The problem appears when that poor man/woman becomes a rich person. Money destroys him. Family feels alone and without protection while the main person of the family is working out. There isn’t comunication between them and consequently the family is broken up. If the family is formed by children, these children will be independent and they will do whatever they want because their parents will be too busy working or arguing between themselves. Another different things to point out “money is the root of all evil” are the singers, actors or famous people. They usually started with a mediocre salary but when they started to be famous, they usually lose the control of their lifes (I should say this does not happen always but it is true this happens in most of the cases). They have to spend a lot of time away, without looking their families and friends. They are under pressure and sometimes these factors help them to prove drugs or alcohol. They have to bear day after day fans, interviewers, etc, and this is the prize a famous person has to pay if he/she wants to be a singer or an actor. When they realized all the money they have, they don’t know what to do with it and in most of the cases they spent the money in silly things. When they get older they have to sell their lives because they are ruined. I think this is a very sad thing. I could write in this paper a lot of different cases more in which we can see clearly tat “money is the root of all evil”. For example: sanity depends on the money: if you have money, you will be treated in better circunstances. Education and policy are two items very related with money too but I don’t want to lose my nerves writing about that. Summing up, as you can see in all these cases, everybody is guided by money: Money is very powerful and it gets to attack people of different social classes and ages. The only thing I have very clear is that human being is corrupted by nature. Nobody is coformed with his life. Everybody wants to be better and this wish to get it destroys lives.


It has been said that all that money touches becomes corrupted, and it may be true. If we think about all the problems that ambition causes, maybe we will be less ambitious and may be we will give more importance to the things that really have it. How many are the cases of people that killed for money, that left their families for searching the great oportunity of their lives: that is to become rich. I’m not saying that all who wants money can be a bad person, but money is not at all good reason for making something so terrible as comitt a crime. Money, it’s impossible to live without it, and it is demostrated everyday and in everywhere that if you don’t have money, you are nothing. It sounds radical that the fact of having or not money can determine our way of life and what we are, but in this capitalist society in which we live, money is the religion of almost everyone. However, there are some people who give money the importance that it really has, that is, money as something transitory, that could bring us some happy because it allows us to buy food, clothes, to have some pleasures in life, but we cannot forget that money can-not buy everything, it cannot buy health or life. Money is not the root of evil, it’s only a temptation which may lead us to evil. It has its valor as everything has. The evil emerges from the people who do not recognise the real valor of money; and these people discover later or soon in their lives that money isn’t the most important in this life.


One can think that money is the root of all evil because it seems clear enough that when someone is the owner of a big amount of money they are supossed to be something else, almost a Godness by society. Form this point of view, it is easy to imagine the differences between such “special being” and the rest of mortals, I means that this person is allowed to doing everything he/she wanted and, of course, this fact provokes a lot of problems and wakes up a sort of bad feelings towards both parts. The rich person also begins to separate from the part of society different to him/her and usually his/her only target is to get more and more money and to go up in the social scale (It nevermind who you must “smash”). But, there are a huge amount of evils that are not consquence of the money such as quakes, disseases, traffic accidents, etc… I think it is not money the root of all evil. We are the guilties but we need an excuse and money is the perfect one. If we try to imagine a society where money doesn’t exist in order to avoid social differences it will be the same that if we try to imagine a society where all citizens have a lot of money, the same amount of money. They would have money but they wouldn’t be corrupted because there wouldn’t be differences between them. So, as far as I am concerned, envy is more dangerous than money.


In the days we are living, it seems as if money ruled our society: There is a well known proverb, which says: money makes the world go round. Unfortunately, this saying is true due to the fact that, nowadays without money you have no importance. In these violent days we are living, there is a dimension of truth in saying that money is the root of all evil. A few bills or some golden coins in our purse may make us really happy but they can also destroys someone’s life. If one owes money to other person, he can be attacked, if it is to the bank that he owes it, he may lose his house, if a third world country is in debt with a rich one, it may be invaded or denied any kind of help. The question is, where do we go without money? Nowhere seems to be the most likely answer. The worst things happening nowadays in the world seems to have their origin because of economic reasons. Wars, famine in underdeveloped countries, terrorism or ecological disasters. Someone must have some profit with all these disgraces, otherwise it seems probable that some person or institution may have the solution to solve these global problems. Times when making money with one’s effort seem to be lost, while the important thing seems to be making a large amount of money as soon as possible without thinking in the consequences this practice can have.


I agree with this sentence: “All armies should consist entirely of proffessional soldiers: there is no value in a system of military service”. Military service can be useful if people go there in a good manner. If you impose something like this you’ve to take into account people against this. With a military service imposed the work is excessively because young people are not volunteer for this proposal. But if we have a group of people who want make a military service, their instruction will be better. If a person wants to make a military sevice this person will be prepared in a best manner than a person who is obligated. Voluntary service is better. If a person go to the military service if he wants, he will be a good soldier. Soldiers without a preparation could be an easy target in a war. If we thing of a war, we will need soldiers with a big experience. If we have a war and we send to this war soldiers without experience, we could have terrible consequences. All our soldiers could be asasinated and destroyed. If military service is something volunteer every nation can increase the number of its soldiers. Every nation’s soldiers could be amazingly good. If we have an army formed by proffessional soldiers we will have a good army. They’re going to be prepared in different aspects of the war. We could have a group for desactivating mines, other group for fighting in enemie’s positions, other group for attacking enemies in their positions, and so on. We had the war of Irak recently. In this war we could see the form of acting of the best soldiers. In this war we could see groups extremely prepared. This is a project of the soldiers. I’m talking about an american project for creating the best soldiers in the world. These soldiers receive an special preparation for combats and wars. This special project of americans have a name: “landwarrior”. With this, it looks for the best soldier with an equipment amazingly sofisticated – Guns, radars…If we have normal people in the army we cannot do this kind of projects. Normal people couldn’t do something. We need a group for looking for mines in the sea etc. For these kind of things we will need special soldiers. Professional soldiers can do all these things. Professional soldiers enjoy making all these things. But normal people can’t do this kind of things.


It is widely recognized that the education-system in Spain leaves lots to be desired, let alone English teaching system: When entering the University, students expect ot reach an almost native speaker level of English as soon as they are on their final year. But the cold hard fact is that it is not true. Lessons are boring and most people decide to leave before they finish. It is also true that lessons are very theorical; the student has not the choice to participate because they pass the time copying what the teacher is saying. Fortunately, the situation is changing and more and more teachers are getting aware about the situation. This does not mean anything. Some teachers have accepted to improve their lessons, but others could not care less about the theoretical lessons. On balance, the system would be possible to change. It all depends on the students, willing to learn and sensible teachers willing to teach.


It is quite surprising the fact that many people believe that money is one of the most important things to achieve happiness as statistics show. This kind of statement reminded me of an old song claiming that “Money is the root of an evil” and I asked my friends if they agreed with this belief. Needless to say that there was a wide range of opinions; they can be divided into two groups: those that are for the topic would integrate one of them and the other one would be formed by those people against the argument. The group of people agreeing with the idea of moneyas the root of all evil support their belief by saying that when someone looks anxiously for increasing the amount of money hidden on his or her pockets, this person has a main objective achieving a successful ending, therefore he or she would go through on the steps leading to money forgetting ethics and names. For all these people material things are like Gods and this is very badly seen in the eyes of society. On the other hand, we find the group of people disagreeing with the idea of money as source of evil. They base their opinions in the fact that money is proved to be necessary to achieve happiness and they make special emphasis in the fact that money is needed to achieve happiness but that money is not happiness. Therefore they cannot understand what is wrong in trying to achieve money to cope with the daily situations. To sum up, I would like to say that money can be seen as the source of evil or not, but in my opinion, what is the source of evil is that bad us of money.


In my opinion, I think the question is not if “money is the root of all evil”, because obviously money is necessary for living, but I think that the matter is just like about who has the “Money”. I mean, if you look at the socio-economic situation of the world you can see that the most of the resources and the access to information belong or are ruled and controlles by a very little part of human beings, whose are living in the so-called 1rst World, while the rest of humanity must live with the minimum for surviving. So, I think that is not an acceptable situation. We are, in a certain way, responsible of this situation, and we have to work very hard if we want to change something and we also have to try that those less-favorablished countries and people could live with dignity and improve their expectatives.


I am a 24 year-old woman and ever since I was born (well, perhaps ever since I was a kid) I was conscious that money was extremely important. It means it all to some people. Without money you are nothing in this society. Every time I turn on my televion set and I switch on the news, all I find are wars, murders, thievery, exploitation, discrimination…I suppose there are several reasons for these horrible affairs and issues, but all this evil shares a common root which is money. If money did not exist, this world would probably be a better place. Not perfect, perhaps, but many of our problems would disappear. The importance humankind gives to money is outrageous. We are losing our moarl. We could rather have mor cents in our pocket than help poor people and beggars who plead on sidewalks and streets. People are dying of hunger and all we worry about is having a larger car or a better music equipment.


Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. This “problem” has many consequences. When students leave university and they decided to look for a job they find many difficulties. These students know theoric question, they can give exact definitions about a great number of terms. But they are not able of making some practices such as, explain a theme or a subject to a child or do all the things that they know theoretically. Most people think that they have a university degree and they don’t know nothing. They are uncaple of developing simple activities. They associate their future with darkness. In fact, in some occasions they think that even a baker is more prepare than they for the real world. A world in which you have to look for a job, and in this situation, another problem is: Where can I go for finding a job? Actually, a young boy finishes his degree and the first thing or idea that appears in his mind is now, what? All students have many questions and few answer. And, of course, they also feel fear because they are secure that they are not prepared for develop a job. How can a “new” doctor open a body of a human if he has never do it? One of the most difficult things is to find answers for all these questions.


People spend most part of their lifes preparing to become a future professional. Getting an Uiversity degree is a long process in which they spend a lot of time and effort. In spite of all their effort, after finishing their degree they feel as if they had not learnt all they wanted. Degrees are focused on introducing students in a lot of new topics, but they don’t really value if this topic would be useful once they start working. There is no point on spending five years studying something which will not have any practical purpose. Most teachers are only worried in expalining all the topics, but they do not try to apply them to real life, so that these topics stop being duperficial. By doing this they could catch students attention and they would help them to develop in real world. Subjects must be applied to everyday life in order to understood easily. Learning a lot is not so important as to understand what you learn. Learning cannot consist only on theory but also on practice. Learning five hundred pages by heart is not useful as learning a half of them and spending the rest of time trying to apply them to real world. Appart from this, it is easier learning and studying when you had previously made a lot of practice about the topic. Some teachers should think about waht few things their students have learnt of all the lot of things they have said. Learning is a difficult process which should be taken seriously. It is not something you do without expecting to receive something. Students want to learn how to use their knowledge in future.


Nowadays most universities present an extremely theoretical structure in their main subjects. This is the situation of university degrees related to science and also to humanistic or letters. In the particular case of philology our subjects result too theoretical and the practical part is forgotten in most cases. To reach good marks is very important but in may cases this is the only thing we are focused on in our studies and we are not aware that we have only adquired theoretical knowledge. It is necessary to prepare students to their future but not only from a theoretical point of view. Different real situations should be exposed in our lessons, situations which we will have to face up after finish our studies. This is perhaps more visible in those studies related to science. For instance in Medicine, Psychology... it is essential to practice all that students have learnt in University. Because of this lack of practical preparation it is not strange to see situations which surprise us when we find people who do not know how to do their job. To sum up it can be said that although theory is important, practice should be given more importance.


Nowadays we can observe that most of the university degrees are theoretical. But what must be a degree and, generally, the education? It must be only a source knoledge more or less usefull, a weapon for the students and future workers to be prepared to enter in the real world? In my point of view, degrees have to be tools to enter in the society. The first argument I want to mention in favour of the practice is that, although there is no doubt that theoretical lectures are important, we have to consider the relevance of the practical ones too. In fact, as I have said before, in any job you can may employes will ask for experience, and so, practice. On the other hand, another educati/cional argument is that joining the theory with the practice would turn classes less boring and the subject would be more understandable. Degree’s programs need a reform and I don’t know why politians involved in education don’t change it. If we want a future generation prepared to real world we have to change degrees.


A student who has finished his studies at university is not always prepared to work. At universities the majority of lectures are magistrals, there are not practical classes. The proffessional diplomas are practical but they are undervalued, most of students want to take a university degree. It is believed by the majority of university students that practical lectures are hardest than magistral lectures, they prefer to do a major effort at the end of the year, not the whole year. In addition to this, university teachers prefer magistral lectures because they have not to prepare classes before. The majority of university teachers are old and they are tired of teaching. Moreover the majority of university degrees are totaly theorical:filologies, policies, law studies... and they are supported by old studies plans without practice. In addition there is another problem: mediums for practice are very limited. Against this it could be argued that not all of university degrees are theorical. A lot of them have practical lectures, for exemple: nursery studies, gymnastic studies, ...At this faculties teachers teach practice and they dispose of practical mediums. In conclusion, after I have explained the most importants points of view about this topic I want to ask myself something: “Can we change our university studies system?”. The answer is in our hands.


Actually most university degrees do not prepare students for the real world, because they are theoretical. For that reason students are in a difficult situation. In the real world all is practise and they are not prepared for that. We must search the best solution to them. Nowadays university students are not prepared for the real world. In fact they had studied more theory than practise. However in the laboral work practise is more important than theory. On the other hand we must say that there is not practise without theory and also that theory has to be linked to practise. They have the same importance. In addition to this we have to say that some teachers only teach theory and they have not interest in practise. They argued that theory is the more important base. Therefore, because of what I’ve said in the body of my essay that’s what I think about university degrees: I think education system has to change. It’s necessary to prepare students in a best way in order to facilitate their laboral future.


First of all, we should make a distinction between outdoors places, this is places exposed to open air, and indoors places, where the air can not circulate loosely. I think that the impact of smoke(from tobacco) on the lungs of passive smokers is higher on a closed or indoors place than on an open or outdoors one because the air can not circulate and be renewed in the same way in both places. Regarding the outdoors places, we realize that there is full air circulation and renewing so the only problem we can find will be the smell of the tobacco smoke. This trouble can be avoided establishing two separated zones: one for smokers and the other for non-smokers with a slight separation but in the same place. In the case of indooors places, we find that air circulation is poor and even a good system of air-conditioning can not provide a renewed air as if we were outdoors. Taking this into account, we should try to avoid the contact between smokers and non-smokers creating a zone for each one of them. Those zones should be fully separated; this is, each one should be a room with total independence rom the other one. They should be considered as different places regarding their degree of separation and, this way it should be impossible that a smoker one could be affected in any way by the pollution of tobacco smokers. To sum up, I think that it is very difficult to find a public indoors place that could be divided in two to allow the creation of smoking roooms or even duplicating its services, for example: Can you imagine two different queues, one for smokers and the other for non-smokers, at the entrance of the INEM? So my conclusion is clear; it should be legal smoking in outdoors public places because with a few organization and respect there should not be any trouble, but regarding indoors public places, I think that smoking should be illegal because any health damage should be avoided, even the smallest possibility, and also the option of dividing the public places is very expensive and almost impossible.


The consumption of tobacco should be banned in public places. Smokers can make use of their rights in many places without disturbing other people. Furthermore, the rights of non-smokers should prevail before the ones of smokers, the health before the disease. We should not forget that tobacco is one of the main causes of death in our country nowadays, so if you decide to die, you don't have to condemn others to death. As mentioned before, a person who usually smokes has a lot of places to do it, and he should avoid disturbing others. Nowadays there have been established laws thaty impose the restriction of reserved areas for smokers in public places. However, harder laws should be passed in order to make these spaces to be respected. What's more, penalties should be imposed to those who do not respect them. Smokers can make use of their rights in these public reserved zones and they can also do it in private places such as their cars or their houses. The rights of non-smokers should have a greater weight in society, as they take care of their healteh when they make the decision of non-smoking. The health should prevail before the disease, specially when pregnant women and children become the victims of the smoke of the tobacco indirectly .


I agree with this statement because I consider that nowadays the University doesn´t prepare students for the real world. Classes are principally theoretical and in my case, for example, if I want to learn a language I know that I must travel abroad because if I stay here I´ll never learn it. I would like to have more practical classes with more speaking and learnings´exercises. I have the impression that when I finish the career I will not know to speak English (or other language) as I would have wanted. It´s the hard reality! I also think that Spanish educational system is worse thatn other European systems and it is reflected in the high level of unemployment. Students are less prepared than other European students. After, when they must get a job they don´t act as it´s expected. Another cause is the lack of help from governments, which are more interested in financial, economical and territorial issues than in educational problems. It´s very ashamed! Without a serious education we will never integrate in a plural society.


Through all our life we are told what to do, what it is morally wrong and what is not. Some people feel free to talk about everything, but they do not realize that most of the times they talk only through their point of view.They think they are the truth, and thus they do not care about other people feelings and as a consequence these 'gods of the word' are preventing people's most valuable thing: freedom. If we focused our speech on Spanish homosexual marriages there should not be any point of dicussion and the answer should be very easy. 'Should the marriage of persons of the same sex be allowed?', 'Yes'. The reason to this is that our main law, the Constitution, is based on the principle that every individual is free. Any individual of the Spanish society can do everything he wants to since he does not hurt psychologically or physically any other. Taking this statement as a referent there should not be any difficulty to answer the question made. But although our society is based on this old principle many sectors of society are against it. These groups' thoughts are similar in all the rest of the world. We can add then that the rest of the world does not have the same Constitution we do, and this would be a reasonable and true opinion. The United States of America are not ruled by Spanish Constitution, neither Russia, nor Italy, but they all have one aspect in common. All these countries are formed by human beings and humanity is controlled by a kind of universal law, which is the Human Rights. In my opinion and probably in the opinion of the people that allowed their signature to be on the Declaration of the Human Rights, every decission taken must be under consideration of this sense of freedom and respect. If people do not respect each other there would never be freedom, thus the more fragile individuals will always be governed by the strong and powerful. Besides, if some people say the only believed in God's word we may say to them that the first and main point of Christianity is to love each other as oneself. People should love and respect the others without paying any attention to their culture, colour of sin, sexuality, ... Although taking into consideration all these legal aspects, both political and religious, there is one factor that we can not forget, which is: history. People are conditionated through history under a patriarchal society, where the family is the main important element. This family will be formed by a man, a woman and their children, and anything that will go against this will be considered odd and irregular, but what is worst, it will be considered illegal. All in all, if we want to live in a better place, where people will feel free and live in harmony and peace, the main element will be respect,and thus every body should be able to decide who they want to live with, and who they want to love, without any kind of restrictions; through this we could be able to say that we live based on the terms of Freedom and respect.


The prohibition of smoking in public places is a controversial theme. The smokers and non-smokers have a great different opinion, Both of them have rights, but the problem is that these rights are totally opposite. Smokers want to smoke when they need it, and they do not think about others, their preocupation is satisfying their necessity. On the other hand, non-smoker's popinion is that they have the right of breathing in a clear atmosphere. Although smokers and non-smokers think that in certain areas or public places the tobacco should be banned, in this case they are speaking about hospitals, supermarkets etc. Smoking in public places should be illegal but, at the same time the government should give sanctions for smokers such as programmes for give up tobacco, or restricted areas for smoking. It's important to know that smokers suffer a type of adiction and in some moments they need a cigarette and they cannot control themselves. So they need help or other options not only a prohibition. On the other hand, a good solution could be that the government make a prohibition about tobacco, they should banned to sell cigarettes. But goverment do not want this solution because they would lose the money of taxes in this way. It's a bit ironic that the government think about the possibility of making illegal to smoke in public places. Government should start taking into account about small thing such as, the prohibition of advertissment in walls or in different types of magazines, goverment also allow that the industry of tobacco writing smoking can kill but govermnent do not do nothing else. Non-smokers also have rights. in some public places they should breath authenthic pollution, and they damage themselves without smoking.



Smoking is one of those realities that not only has to carry the burden of being a politically incorrect habit, but also one of those things which are fashionable to criticise. We rarely see anyone protesting behemently against the progressive deterioration of public school funding in Spain, but as soon as the topic of smoking is brought up, we will undoubtely hear someone raising his voice against it. Facts aginst it are, on the other hand, well known by everybody : people dying of terminal illnesses, yellow fingers, black teeth... It would seem logical to assume that we need to stop this habit. But should we? As almost everythibng in life, smoking is something xxx. What is the point in making something as that illegal? Wouldn't it be for ther worst? Hystory teaches us that banning something only serves to create a bigger demand for it and illegal ways of getting it . Then, on the other hand, stands the issue of passive smokerss. Why people who don't like to smoke should have to start smoke-polluted air? It seems reasonable to legislate in some way the conditions on which smokers should be able to practice therir habit without disturbing non-smokers, the point here is understnding: Smoking will never be illegal although many people would like it to be that way, and neither would smoking be allowed everywhere, even when many smokers would love it. Smoking should be restricted in public areas, but not illegalised, or prohibited. That would be and extreme decision which would only create discomfort, as it already does in many countries. Unfortunately, those decisions are politically correct.


In my opinion smoking in public places should be illegal. There are many reasons to defend this idea. Firstly smoking is completely unhealthy not only for smokers but also for people around smokers. Tobacco provokes a lot of problems in people such as illnesses related to breath and also psychological complications such as anxiety, dependency and adiction. Apart from these problems, which are directly related to the body, there are also economic disadvantages; smoking implies to spend money to buy tobacco, and it is not precisely a cheap "habbit". But one of the most important problems of smoking is that doing this near other people smokers damage these non-smoking people. I mainly refer to children and pregnant women, although tobacco affects wrongly everybody. Fortunately there are areas for non smokers, but there should be more, for instance in places such as restaurants, pubs, universities, etc. The sensation that I feel when I come in a pub is horrible: my eyes and my nose suffer too much and the smell of tobacco is horrible. I think that Spanish should follow the example of other European countries and create more areas where smoking is restricted. I accept that a person wants to smoke and that he/sh likes it but what I can not accept is that this person damage other people with his/her smoking. I think that tobacco is one of the worst discovers because it is something that does not cause damage, but this is only apparently, because the fact is that smoking kills people. I consider too sad to see may people dying because of smoking. There should be more advertisment to warn about the consequences of smoking in order to make people aware about them. Another important question about smoking is the type of advertisment that tobacco companies make in order to get great benefits. On TV commercials about smoking tobacco is presented as something young, miodern, funny, etc. The message that they try to communicate is that if you smoke these cigarrettes you will be like them; this implies that you will be young, modern, fashionable, etc. Because of this many young children begin to smoke too young because doing it they feel fashionable. But these TV commercials do not talk about the wrong consequences of smoking. In my opinion these kind of commercials should be more severe and serious or simply and better do not exist. So, as I have said, smoking should be illegal because it is an enemy for the health of everybody. Unfortunately, it is difficult to achieve, so one right way to destroy it would be to make aware people and show to the youngest the dark side of smoking, which is its unique side.


The problem of smoking in public places is a very controversial topic nowadays. Most smokers have a clear opinion: it must not be banned. However, what do those who do not smoke think? Varied opinions are available. On one hand, there is a group of people (probably the largest one)who strongly believe that smoking in public places should be illegal. On the other hand, the more tolerant group of non-smokers argue that smoking is not a good thing, but that we should let everybody choose by themselves. Nevertheless, we still have the problem of the public health remaining. Therefore, it seems clear that, although both smokers and non-smokers should have their rights, not all public places are of the same kind so as to forbid smoking in all of them. Nowadays, especially in the most recent times, some people have started to see the fight against tabacco as something really necessary and important. Every day we turn on our television and we can watch a thousand advertisements about helpful products that will set you free from this vice. Even television shows are trying to beat Guiness records of people who have stopped smkoking thanks to them. Governments are taking serious measures in order to reduce the number of smokers. There are rising prizes and showing citizens the risks they take by smoking. But probably the most important measure they are now starting to take in Spain is that of forbidding smoking in public places because, as many studies have proved, passive smokers are very prone to getting one of the most feared illnesses: cancer. The biggest problem of all this seems that everybody has forgotten to ask smokers their opinions. Everybody is trying to prevent them from smoking, but no one has asked them if they really want to stop smoking. They get up one day and, suddenly, they are one of the worst problems the society has to fight against. In a world where everybody talks about civil rights, freedom of opinion and free will, they suddenly see their rights as smokers reduced. Of course, I suppose they do not want to damage other peop0le with their smoke. But, what if they choose to damage themselves? Other drugs like heroine, cocaine or even alcohol are much worse than tobacco and the fight against them is not so strong. What do we do then? If breathing other people's smoke is dangerous for passive smokers but smokers have the right to smoke, what do we do with public places? Do we make smoking illegal? Do we let smokers enjoy their freedom? This is a very controversial problem, but probably the fairest solution is one which respects both the rights of smokers and of non-smokers. Besides,not all public places should be included within the same category. For example, it is not the same to smoke in a hospital than to smoke in a pub or a restaurant. In a hospital there are sick people and they do not go there because they want. In a pub, you drink and smoke and you are there because you want to have fun and not because of a necessity. From my point of view it is not a bad idea to forbid smoking in some public places, but only if special areas for smokers are designated. Summing up, we all have rights. Neither non-smokers should become the "victims" of smokers, nor smokers should become the "victims" of non-smokers. The world is big and there is space enough for everybody in it.


We live in a world where everyday health is more and more important. People live much longer and want to pass their golden age as healthy as possible, so they can enjoy their years of retirement. Smoking has become in these last years one of the most controversial subjects. Scientific studies demonstrate that it produces cancer and many other lung diseases.So less people smoke and these people, do not wish to be in contact with smoke and its prejudicial effects. I bellieve that everyone has the right to preserve their health and not be uncomfortable in public places. I think that smoking should be banned in public places, not only because of what I have already said, but also because a non-smoker cannot go away from smoke, but a smoker can try not smoke in public places. Smoking is a personal option. Some people choose to smoke, not caring about their health or other consequences and other people choose not to do so. As smoking is a personal option, non-smokers should be respected in their option of not smoking, and not have to breathe smokers smoke. For non-smokers, the smoke produced by smokers is uncomfortable and not very healthy for them or their children. Scientific research has demonstrated that non-smokers in smoking areas become passive smokers. This is worse than being a smoker, because your defences are not used to smoking, so you are not only exposed to the dangers of smoking but these are increased.As you have choosen not to smoke, you have also choosen not to develope the same diseases or results of smokering. Even though, I would like smoking in public places to be illegal. I think that there should be places habilitated for them where they can smoke. It's not fair for a non-smoker to breather the smoke he/she is not smoking, but also unfair to punish them by not letting them smoke anywhere. I think that smoking in public areas should be illegal as a question of respect for other people. If I do not wish to smoke, I don't want to breathe it either and not smoking in public areas is a way of respecting my option and other peoples option. As I think that respect is mutual their should also be places for smokers to smoke because smoking becomes an addiction and as an addiction they need to smoke. If they are during many hours in a public places in some moment they will have to need to smoke and they will have to do it somewhere. Habilitating places for them would resolve the problem and help understanding between smokers and non-smokers. And maybe why not help them not to smoke if they have to go to another place to do so.


One of the essential values to make things easier in our communities are respect and tolerance, and for that, smoking should be banned in public places, since there's a high number of non-smokers in our society. I myself am a kind of compulsive smoker, and as a smoker I get frustrated when I'm not allowed to smoke in places such as airports or university buildings. However, as a person who lives in communities, I support such prohibition. Smokers enjoy having cigarrettes while drinking a hot cup of coffee, or while going out, but there're plenty of people who don't smoke. And it's not only a question of habits, but also a question of health. Many people suffer from asthma or other similar breathing dissease, and they cannot be in pubs or discos because they find it hard to breath due to the smoke that is condensed in the air. Sportsmen and sportswomen can't either afford being in a closed place where people is continually smoking- It's comprehensible, not everybody likes the taste of cigarrettes- If you're a person whose life, hobbies and proffession goes around a particular sport, for sure that the smell of tobaccoo and the breathing of its smoke is nothing but a barrel to achieve their success in such sport. Illegalisation in a country like Spain will be a difficult matter. It's a country in which habits-specially smoking ones- have been strongly rooted. Appart from that, spanish tobacco company, Tabacalera, moves great quantities of money, perhaps with multimillonary annual incomes, of which the national government is given a part. And for this reason, prohibition of smoking in public places will be a very very slow process here. However, changes have been produced little by little. Who could have imagined 3 or 4 generations before our that there would be restaurants wiht sections for smokers and non-smokers. Who would think that smoking in planes or trains would no longer be allowed? But, in fact, it is happening. Many habitual smokers won't be quite happy with this idea, but, to say something, it's a problem of habits, as I've already said. In british airports you're not allowed to smoke, and for a spanish, who is used to smoke everywhere, is something stupid and frustrating. I think that british used to think the same some years ago when the law illegalised smoking in public areas. But they got used, and if they could, why not us?


Why not? In my opinion, this is just a matter of education. If we had been educated in the same-gender couples society, we couldn’t have any doubt about it. And I think that as much is a society developed, much better will be the understanding in front of this marriages. In example, the Netherlands, it appears to be an opened society with opening minds; they were the first fighting for same sex marriages that got it. In Spain it will be quite difficult that society accept it because they are to closed to do it. We can see it everyday on TV or in the press, but our society is still thinking that the model they have ever seen, a pair man-woman, is the best we can have. About same-sex couples having children, I think that is also the same. I think many times what will I do if I wouldn’t have a husband and it’s better two of the same sex than one alone because boys and girls need mother and father figure in their lifes. But on the other hand, I have many friends that grew up with one of the members of the couple and they have been good persons with a normal behaviour. Another point of view is the one of the Catholic Church, I think they are not living the real life, they stopped their minds some centuries ago. They should refresh the way they think and don’t give their opinion about this kind of marriages. In sume, I am in favour with those marriages.


I think that it depends really on the situation and specially the place where it should be illegal. If we are talking about a bar or a restaurant we should take into account the three parts involved in this problem. One of them is the owner of the business. I am quite sure that the prohibition of smoking in bars in Ireland will make very angry the owners of the pubs, as they will probably lose part of the clientele. It this case it should depend on the proprietors’ decision whether to allow or not to smoke in their bar. Then we have the smoker, the person that goes to the pub to have a beer, have a little chat with friends and smoke a cigarette as a social thing. On the other side we have the non-smoker person that has to bear with a crowded room full smoke. For them it is also a matter of good manners. In some countries the solution of having different areas for smokers and non-smokers on the restaurants seems to work. Then, there are all the other public places: banks, hospitals, schools... At work it seems to be different as it is not a place you go to enjoy yourself. At least you choose whether to go to a pub or not. For some people to make such a fuss about this matter is a response of a big mediate campaign. For others it is quite the contrary, this campaign has been done to stop the increase of people that smoke. I am neither in favour nor against smoking in public places but I do sometimes wonder why should be illegal to do something that it is legal.


I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed, first of all because we are free to decide what we want or which is the person we want to love. It is allowed in some places, here in Spain in Catalunya, and I think it’s a big step to open our minds, to understand: other points of view of living the sexual life and to know this people and respect them. It’s difficult to understand and to explain this situation, specially if I don’t know their daily life is. I am sure about one thing: they are HUMANS like you, and me, and all, and they have RIGHTS in the same way for being able to make their dreams come true and getting married as all of us. Talking about our RIGHTS, the free expression, the freedom are very important ones. And I think that our sexual option is a consequence of it. We are free to choose, and to express it. To repress our feelings or what we want to do it’s too bad, and it can bring us bad consequences. If nobody is being affected because of the decisition of homosexual persons, I don’t see the problem with leaving them getting married. I don’t know if what I think is right or wrong; who knows it? But in my very personal opinion, people has to be allowed to bet married with persons of their same sex, and everybody should understand them, and leave them to live their own life as they want.


I am quite sure about the fact that if you look up the word ‘love’ or even ‘feeling’ in a good dictionary there would be no reference or relation to a particular sex. Feelings or love can be found inside any human being without restrictions, so, why can we restrict the object of the feeling or of love to a person of a sex opposite to the one of the subject who loves or feels? Men and women are able to think and feel in the same way and nobody has enough power to indicate them what do they have to do. Furthermore, according to the Spanish Constitution all human beings are equal, having the same rights and also the same duties; so that, if we understand getting married as a right and if we add the fact that all human beings are free to choose, anybody would have to be allowed to choose the person with whom they would share their life. On the other hand, I believe that people should change their minds and forget the idea that makes them understand getting married, or in other words, putting a signature in a paper, as something so important. From my point of view a signature does not make stronger links between two people, does not increase feelings, does not imply that you are going to give without thinking about what you are going to receive. Do people think that they are selling their lifes or even their whole existence to their lovers? It is quite difficult, even impossible for me to introduce myself inside the mind of married people: what are their values? Why did they choose this option? Was it just a mere tradition in their families? But ignoring all those questions for which I would never find one answer, if I had to make up a theory to explain the taste of people for getting married I would come to the conclusion that we are so insecure, that we are so afraid of feeling alone that we look for a strong link, something difficult to destroy among people, we want to be sure that we are going to have at least one person next to us for all our lifes. So that, and to sum up, all people should have the same opportunities, marriage would be allowed for everybody but maybe after visiting a pair of psychologists to clearing up our minds.


To prohibit smoking in public places is important, we could see everyday information that talkabout this injurious habit. Most people in our society is concerned about the problem, but they’re still some who keep on breaking the rules. It isn’t difficult to see someone smoking a cigarrette on a bus even when is prohibit, or next to a pregnant women, even though we know it may be dangerous for her baby. The sanitary authorities are making great efforts in order to help people to leave that unhealthy habit, they promove special courses and give prizes as trips I can understand those people who thinkwe’re hunting smokers, they have special places in restaurants, planes, trains... But as I see it, we need to preserve our health. I have not chosen smoking,so I have the right of breathing pure air. Their freedom ends where it starts mine. In my opinion it is neccesary to forbid smoking in public places, but perhaps making sure that the law is respected is even more neccesary. Nowadays they’ve got the chance and the help to leave smoking, we can’t do more.


This is a very controversial theme, because there are very different opinions about, and that problem can affect the rights of the people non smoker, and as well, of people who smoke, because people non smoker people should have the right to inhale pure air and they shouldn’t have to suffer the effects of the toxic air the smokers cause, such as lungs’ cancer and heart’s infart, that is demostrated that are caused by nocive effects of smoking, and the fact that the smokers made the clean air become dirty make the non-smoker inhale it and have the effects it does on smokers. It could be a really nice question to ask about the fact that the industries make the world’s air get dirty, but this isn’t the theme we’re talking about today. Smoking shouldn’t be allowed, because, such as cocaine or crack, is very bad for health, it could cause people die, but the problem to stop allowing it is the fact that it generates really nice money, and it wouldn’t healp a country to stop it while other countries keep allowing it, this problem is similar to weapons, no one country wants to stop getting them, but if one does, it would be an easy attack point for others.


I think the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because they are persons, and if the marriage of persons of the diferent sex is good for all people, should be it of the persons of the same sex, too. If someone do not be secure with persons of the diferent sex, if one person do not like other person of other sex but on the other hand that person fall in love with person of the same sex, why they not would get marriage? In My opinion, people that said the marriage of persons of the same sex shouldn’t be allowed, they said that because they feel nervous with this people. I think that those people thinkthat they are more important or more intelligent that persons get marriage with persons of the same sex and this would not be. My religion, Catolicism, isn’t agree with marriage of persons of the sme sex, they considered it inmoral, in there opinion is something innatural. Maybe the most people aren’t agree with that marriage because they are very religious and they have got fearxx. In the most countries the marriage of persons of the same sex isn’t allowed. Here, in Spain, those marriages are allow but since a few montsh. To conclusion, in my opinion the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed.


From my point of view the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed in Spain and all over the world because it's a natural situation provocated by the humanity and we can't avoid that although we don't like it. The unique possibility it's starting to assume it and act according this. In one hand, we should realize in what world we're living and break with the traditional stereotypes. Spain is a catolic country that's why catolic people don't understand the marriage of persons of the same sex. They don't want to break the structure of the traditional family because they aren't used to taking decisions by themselves. The church and the Catolicism say that the marriage can only made by persons of different sex because it's the natural condition of the humanity. But who are they to say a thing like this??? Heterosexual people? Repressived people? Traditional people? In the other hand, they're too many people who should have the same opportunities like others ones. Nowadays, the freedom to choose what you want or what you need is the most important thing for us. However, there's another main feature in all this and it's the important of the love. It's very difficult to find the appropriate person to spend all your life and if you get it why you should be worry about his or her sex. The happiness is something more deep.


Our education is suppose to be a way of working in the real life, but the truth is that you finish your studies and then starts a new education. I have just finished my physiks degree. When you finish it, you think "oh, fantastic, I can work!" and then the reality sticks you. The first thing is doing the curriculum vitae. "OK, fine", it takes you a long time, but you do it. Then you go to the INEM office, and they ask you what studies you have. OK, no problem. The INEM will not find you a job so you don't care. The next step is the Internet, and that is the moment you realize, you are not prepared for working. You are looking for a job where experience is not required because you don't have it, but the problem is not the experience only, because you have to know a lot of computer languages that haven't been teached to you. My degree has a lot of practical subjects, but in none of these I learn a word about what I am asked for in most jobs. Some of thing you must know to go into jobs world are very specific, but most of are not. So after being working hard for getting the degree you start again, this time you have the degree but you don't have the knowkledge so you know what you must do: you must spend a year learning, for being teacher: the CAP. If you want to became a doctor: you prepare the "Tesina" and the "Tesis". If you want to work in a firm: Any kind of computering languages and programs. In the most of cases: Doing a master and spending more money that you don't have. Some people do practise in a firm in a way that the firm teaches what they need for working and then they give them a job. And after that I ask myself: Why on hearth did nobody teach me what I really need? I'm sure that I'm lucky in having a degree, maybe my jobs conditions are not good, but if I don't have it, they would be worst. I think the main problem is that the university degrees are not planned for working, just for learning. You must learn a lot of different subjects you will never find out where is the use or the interest. A friend of mine says that a degree is no more than a obstacles race for getting a "medal": a degree I studyed a degree that has a lot of practical subjects and I have this problem, but what does it happens in the degrees that don't have it?The rates of unemployed people are there. A lot of people is working in something that they haven't learn in their degree and a FP studient is better qualified than a university student in at least half time and much less studied.


After being in Santiago for about five years studying English Philology, I totally agree with the fact that this degree is basically theoretical. Yes, Palacios, it is theoretical because we were not taught from the practical point of view. Thousands of books to read just before the exam without taking time for thinking and analysing them carefully. English Philology students don’t know literature in depth and that makes them to go abroad in order to get the language skills. As far as I remember, the last course of English lasted a couple of hours a week, so I did have to go to a private academy in Santiago to keep up with my English. Just if you think about how many times we presented any topic orally, you would realize that English Philology is not good for practical aims. As far as the teaching is concerned, I would assure that we are not well-prepared. We need more didactic background and CAP course is very little. On the contrary, we’d rather make this situation a bit more positive by listing a few tips which may be useful to take into account and they are as follows: - You should make students to think about the current tendencies about methodological methods which I know you did in Perspectivas Metodológicas but only one subject is not enough. - You should make students to talk about any of the units of the programme in front of the other students as a real class. - More English language practice is strongly neccessary as me myself and many other classmates are still in advanced level trying to pass the Proficiency Exam and Oposiciones about Secondary Education. - More things need to be said but I don’t have enough space, so I am 28 years old and there’s no POST for me.


Smoking is an old deal that nowadays has gained much actuallity. This is a bad habit that makes great damage to health, as the doctors usually claim; but it wasn't until recently that people got really concerned about this problem, and so did Government. The government has been taking in the last years different measures to stop people from smoking, the latest one in which they are thinking about is making illegal smoking in public places. Great polemic has risen because of this government's proposal. Firstly, smokers believe that it goes against people's freedom, because it implies a restriction for a certain group of people not letting them behave in their usual way. Connected with this, special places for smokers are being available in some public places. Although it seems a good measure, smokers understand it as a discrimination and moreover, the bad image the media gives about smokers increase this bad feeling. On the other side, non-smokers also claim for their right to be in public place cleared of smokers. As they have decided not to smoke, they expect not to suffer the bad consequences of other's smoke (it is believed that if you are next to a person smoking, you're also smoking part of his cigarrette). In this sense, they would probably agree with making smoking illegal in public places. Even though, many of them could possibly think that it's a better measure to enable special places for smokers, so that they can go to the same places as the non-smokers. To conclude, I'd like to say that I'm a non-smoker person and, having in account both sides of the problem, I think that it's not fair making smoking illegal in public places, as everybody has the right to decide where he wants to go.


I finished my degree three years ago, and some of my friends have finished this year, so this is a question we were talking a lot recently. I think it has a difficult solution, is very easy, in a chat with friends, to talk about the things that are wrong and the way to solv it, but to be able to do it can be really difficult. In one hand, you have to learn a lot of things in just five years! It's imposible to learn everything about something, it doesn't matter what, in such a few time. I mean, no one is able to learn in five years what a proffesional learns in thirty years of work. So a degree, must shows you the bases, the main things and how to solv the problems you will find in your work, and I asure they will be a lot . Therefore you have to learn a lot of information in a few time and I don't know another way, appart from studying, to learn this amount of things. In the other hand, I don't agree with the method of a teacher speaking an hour long and the students writting what he is saying without understanding what they are writting. I'm sure that there are better ways of doing things. To me, the most important job of a teacher is to make the students understand what he or she is teaching. In conclusion, it's difficult to change things, I know, but maybe a mix of both ways would be better. I remember teachers saying the first day of the class, that it was a difficult subject and everyone will fail if we didn't study really hard. I think they were wrong, I think they were bad teacher because they didn't know how to make us understand what they were teaching us.


I think that most university degrees are very theoretical, so students finish their careers with a lack of acknowledge. Otherwise I don't think that the spanish university degrees were valueless. In my opinion, our students have a strong theoretical acknowledgement that can help them to find a job, but perhaps there were a lack of practical in the careers that they are forced to improve. We must center the reasons of this problems. Firstly we have the longest careers in Europe, but it seems like all this time were useless. Are we really spending all this years studing unuseful things? I don't think so. I think that the point of view in other countries is different. They explain a more practical lections and reduces the contents comparing with our careers. The students learn less, but what they learn is useful to the jobs they wer going to develop. In Spain, a university student learn a lot of things that would make him or her capable of developing a great number of jobs. What is better? Secondly, society has been changing so fast in the latest years that the rigid structures in the University were not able to change with this speed. Sometimes I feel like teachers and students were amazing and wandering, wondering what's happening or what's wrong in University. And worse is that noone knows where are University going. That's is the third great problems. Suddenly, a change is necessary! Thus politics began to change without thinking, against all - teachers and students. All people in University became crazy and desoriented but finally nothing changed. Noone want to take serious change, so we change a couple of things and feel calm. Summing up, there are a lot of problems at the University. I think that the most important is make a serious revision of the contents of each subject and even of the subjects of each careers, offer a good study of what the society is needing.


Most university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. They are therefore of very little value. At first, I would say that I am studying Magisterio, because I would like to become an English teacher. I don't know how is this theme in any other university degree, but I can talk about the one that I am studying. Along the three years that occupates this university degree, students have near three months of practical situations. I mean, during the second year we have a month and a half to stay in a Primary School and during the third year we have another month and a half. I have learnt more during those three months that I have been working in a school with "real teachers" that during the three years that I have been receiving theoretical in class. When I went to have my first experience in a school I wasn't prepared at all because nobody at university tought me how to be in front of twelve or fifteen boys and girls waiting for you to teach them something interesting. The first thing I thought was that I would never reach my goal, that it was to become a good school teacher. Most part of my university subjects don't prepare students for the real world, even more, I would say that most of them don't help students to learn what they have to learn for the real life, what is suppose to do. Finally I would say that as my case, there would be a lot more, but I only can talk about what I know, and I think that most university degrees don't prepare students for real world.


Most university degrees are only theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. For example, in Spain there are many degrees that are only theoretical. Many students who are studing a degree they have only theoretical classes and they have few practical classes. They should revindicate their rights for having more practical classes. But the problem of not having practical classes comes when a student finishes his degree and he starts to work. In that moment, the student realizes that the theories that he was learning during the degree were not useful for everyday life. Because in a job you should use the theories that you learnt before but you have to apply them to practical projects. Nowadays, there are many degrees where there is no practice. For example, degrees such as philosophy, law, science ... This degrees should have many practice, because a person who is learning a language should have many native teachers, and grants to go to the country where it speaks this language. For example, in law they should work in offices with lawers to know how they work ... So, every degree should have more practice than theory and in that way the students finish the degree in a useful way and they should be ready to work.


Nowadays it is forbidden to smoke in many public places. Every smoker has to try to respect this but I know that it is quite difficult for them. I am a non-smoker but as I could perceive in my surroundings it is quite difficult for smokers to give up this habit. On the one hand smoke should be forbidden in public places because the smoke affects everyone. I can’t stand staying in a pub if there is no air-conditioning. When I go out I find myself with many difficulties to breathe. This is one of the reasons why I think it should be forbidden. However, I know that if we passed this new law it would bring many problems to our society, specially economic problems and many factories would go bankrupt. A good idea would be to have different areas for smokers and non-smokers though we know that if we did that in every place it would seem like we were different species. In the train you could see this example. Sometimes being a non-smoker you have to try to sacrifice yourself in order to stay with your friends. If I think that it would not be a bad thing to prohibit smoking it’s because in some countries like Ireland this is a fact and it is giving very positive results. Also in Madrid there are many pubs in which is not allowed and in spite of this many people go to these places. This would be a way to make the people conscious that smoking is a very destructive vice and that we have to try to smoke less if we want to improve our lives. We have to try to make them face that they can be independent from this vice and that they can have a good time without smoking. Doing this we would also have in our society less young smokers.


The prohibition of smoking in all public places is a good idea from the point of view of medicine, although most people reject this thought. It is clear that people who earn money with tobbacco will dislike this idea, because if people can not smoke in almost no place, they will leave tobbacco aside. This, of course, will suppose a great loss of money and of tobbacco itself. This change would not be immediately, but little by little. People who have starded smoking many years ago, probably would continue smoking in streets and in their houses, but it is true that the new generations of teenagers will not start smoking and it is a good point, at least, so as to improve our health. I’m sure that smokers do not like at all this idea although they know that it is a possible solution to a problem that affets people from all over the world. I think that it is a good idea but it should take place in the course of several years, not suddenly. At the same time, I think that if finally they do not forbide us to smoke in all public places, there should be some places free of smoke.


The notion of love is the main base in the union of persons for the rest of their lives. Other factors like economic, political, etc. can have importance but never the same as the love. If the love is the main factor, why people of the same sex cannot join their lives if it is that they want? In religious terms we should respect the fact that catholicism doesn’t allow this kind of marriage, but they must also know that gay people don’t want to marriage themselves under the catholic rith but also under the civil one that gives them the same rights and obligations as the heterosexual marriages. But I also think that gay people should know where should they have the limit of their rights, I’m referring to the adoption of childrens by gay couples: I think that all the people have the right of be father or mother, but also the childrens that doesn’t have the enough sense to think by themselves should have the right of that someone thinks by them and give the opinion that a children doesn’t grow in the same way being son of a heterosexual couple as a homosexual couple. In my opinion the society should wait before allow this kind of adoptions because we don’t know how a boy or a girl is going to grow in a atmosphere so different as the actual ones. I’m not saying that two men or two women are not capable of educate a boy in a good way but I’m not sure if all the society is going to accept it. I’m talking, for example, of the jokes and mocks that a boy can suffer in his school by the simply fact of having two fathers, we know how cruel children can be, and the person that is going to suffer more allways is the boy. Is only a small example but we don’t know also if a couple of fathers or mothers is going to educate a boy even better than an heterosexual couple, that also can happen. Is for that, for the fact that we don’t know how this kind of adoptions are going to be that we should wait and walk slowly in this sense. But of course, if Paco loves Javier or Rosa loves Eva they should could married between themselves, and have the same rights and obligations as a conventional marriage.


I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and there are a lot of reasons for doing it. First, smoking causes terrible injures in people’s health and anybody would have to suffer them if he/she doesn’t smoke. Smoking is a personal election, so smokers shouldn’t impose their election to the people that are around them. This is specially true in the case of pregnant women or ill people who cannot breath smoke in any case. In my opinion if smoking was illegal that would have very positive effects for everybody. One of the positive effects would be that some smokers would stop smoking so they could improve their health and their economy. Another positive effect would be that the state could save a lot of money in illnesses that are closely related with smoking like heart attacks and some kinds of cancer. At last a lot of people who don’t smoke could live of work in a clean ambient and they wouldn’t have to suffer the consequences of another people’s vices. However, there are a lot of people, most of them smokers, who say that forbidding smoking in public places would suppose a persecution against smokers. It’s funny that smokers say that because they are the ones that impose their smoke to the other people. Another reason that smokers argue is that if smoking is so bad, (it) tobacco should be banned. The reason why tobacco isn’t banned it’s cultural and because of traditional reasons. Also, smoking in private don’t causes injures to anybody. At last, for all these reason I think that smoking in public places should be illegal and if that happened everybody could live in a more civilized and cleaner world.


Should the marriage of persons of different sex be allowed? Is there any doubt about the answer? What are all of us? We are persons, and everyone should choose without problems the way in which he or she wants to love. People think that everything have to be stablished, everything have to follow the same pattern, and that is the great mistake because every person is a world. Inside our own world, we can share or have things in common with others and in this way, by similitudes, we tend to be and live with people who make us happy, or good, or whatever. Who says there is something estrange love between persons of the same sex, does not care real feelings, because that is what is really important. If a couple like this want to marry, why they should have problems? They would not be causing problems to anybody, so, let's go! The problem here are the prejudices, church, ... society and cultural points of view, that are afraid from they don't know. I am not able to understand why this would be a problem so I can't argue in a best way.


In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal and in fact I think it would be so in few years as in other countries. Since I am smoker it would be expected from me not to think so. The question is that everyone can chose whether to smoke or not but being it allowed in public places many non-smokers have no other option that to become passive ones. I take as an example the situation in Ireland where smoking in public places have been banished a year ago. At first this can be seen as an abusive measure but there are many factors to take into account. The 1st one are obviously non-smokers who can go everywhere, even to pubs or discos enjoying a healthy enviroment. This is even more important when speaking about workers who cannot chose to go to a place depending on whether smoking is allowed or not. I didn't see this so clear till this year when I was working in Dublin as a waitress in a pub. Even when the place was crowded there was no that feeling as in Spanish pubs where the atmosphere is so heavy that there is difficult to see or even to breath. The 2nd factor are the smokers themselves because even if they decide to keep on smoking the number of cigarettes will be diminished since they have to get out the place they are to take one.


When I started to study in the university I thought that at the end I could be a person with a lot of knowledge, instead of this I feel that I didn't learnt too much in three years, and the most of the things that I know now I learnt it by myself, travelling, reading and looking for information about the subjects that I was interested. In the case of english think that is always better to have lessons because the most important it's to practise but when my friends and I went to Ireland we discovered that our level of english it wasn't so good and we weren't prepared to have a conversation with the people of the country. On the other hand have studies it's not meaning that in the future we'll have a work, at least not the job in what we are interested. Go to the University it's an opportunity that we have to value positivity and; anyway, it's better that don't have nothing, but it's not the places that I had imagined, there are a lot of theoretical lessons and the practises that we do aren't enought, and there are not always a relationship between the subjects. I don't want to left the faculty because I really enjoy study but expectatives haven't been completed. I have not choice, I mean, the best thing that I could do now it's study at university (I really like it) but if I could I would do more that one change, starting to thinking about what are the mistakes of the system, what are the things that people needs, what are that people want's and what are the things that the world (specially the laboral world) want about us.


From my point of view, the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed (Fortunately, it is allowed right now) because, in my opinion, to be homosexual of lesbian is not a crime, and I think that they can have the right of marriage. We live in the 21st century, not in the 8th century. This is supposed to be a progressist and laic society where we have finished with all this stupid and intolerant christian concepts of what is right and what is "against nature". I would say to those people who don't like the marriage between homosexuals: "They have committed any crime to not have the possibility and the right to marriage?" Marriages of people of the same sex are as normal as "heterosexual" marriages, and now is the time of destroy the traditional and rotten concept of marriage and family, because nobody can judge a person for his/her sexual option they can be good husbands/wifes and good parents as the other people. In short, marriages of persons of the same sex should be allowed always.


Nowadays, most of the university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. This is a very important matter, because we have to understand that many people spend between 3 and 5 years (or more) studying something that will decide his/her future; and if that degree does not prepare them for the real world, all the time, the money and the efforts of those years would be totally unuseful. So we have to think about it, and we have to see that the future of the students it is not a game. But if one degree has more theory than practise, we do not should think that it is of very little value. It is only that it is not well-defined, and we should contribute to the solution of this problem.


I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed. In the course of time institutions such as church has learnt us that the marriage has to be with a person who has a different sex. It supports this idea with its principal text, the Bible. Our ancestors were educated with moral and religious principles given by the church, and this kind of marriage was considered the normal way of linked with other, or the only way allowed by the main institutions. The Church had the power and people wer obligued to accept these rules. The goverment was linked with the church and it followed its rules too. Many times the head of church and goberment was the same person. In the course of time many changes took place, many advances were inserted in out society. The church, little by little, was los the power, and many people don't follow its rules. Nowadays, society is, supposedly, more advanced and it hasn't a lot of prohibitions. Society is more "free". People can say their thoughts, their sexuality and nobody has the right to judge. But this is the theory. The fact is the sexuality is one of the basic topic in our society and everybody is interested in the sexuality of his/her neighbour. When someone doesn't follow the rule, this person is judged. (The rule, the pattern follow or learns by the church). I think that nobody has the right to judge the others. Everybody has to have the right to choose his/her partner and the possibility to marry with him/her. The sexuality is less important. The most important is "love", the less important is if he/she marries with a man or a woman. I think that the question if the marriage of the same sex should be allowed musn't be done because this kind of marriage should be a normal thing in our lives. Because the important in the marriage isn't the sex of components, the important is the feelings which both parts show. Human beings haven't the capacity to choose or to judge about the life of the others. Human beings aren't born with any kind of right to the others. Human beings must think about their own feelings, thoughts, keep respect with the others, they must find their happiness without disturb the others.


In my opinion, homosexual marriage should be allowed because of one simple reason: homosexuals are like the black people of the sixties in the U.S.A. They have their rights to live like "normal" people because there can be love between two people of the same sex. Personally, I'm not concerned about the fact that they can adopt children. If that children live in a good home there's no problem. In fact, scientific works about this topic demonstrates that a child can live without any traumatic behaviour. In other sort of things, I have to say that this topic doesn't scare me too much. I think it's a battle that was won from the beginning. The Gay movement is a snowball that grows and grows and nor the Church nor other movements are going to stop it. If society is not prepared for homosexual marriage, society must prepare itself for it. It's time to forget the traditional meaning of marriage and understand modern times. Homosexual people exits from the Classic Greece so humanity had enough time to bear it.


Smoking in public places should be illegal because non-smokers are usually bothered with cigarette's smoke, and I think that it is not fair that they had health problems if they don't smoke. Everybody knows that smoking provoques health problems such as cancer, and it is not just that people who didn't chose the option of smoking had to be at hospital only for being in public places, such as bars, pubs, trains, discos and so on, being all these places where it is supposed that everybody can stay in. Apart form this, dangerous situations can be created due to the presence of smokers in public places such as bars or discos, I mean, for example a fire can start because a cigarette is near of a curtain or of something made of paper, and non-smokers can become victims of a situation created by a smoker. People don't use to think on this kind of things, but they can really happen, and as a matter of fact, anybody can see this kind of news in a newspaper or on the television, where for example many people die when a fire starts in a disco when someone is smoking inside it. It is also necessary to think that when a person is smoking there can be a pregnant woman near, and that this smoker is causing sever problems to a little child that can not defend himself, or to an asthmatic person whose life can depend on the cigarette of another person. In brief, from my point of view smoking in public places shouldn't be allowed because smoking is a personal option, and people that don't chose this option don't have to pay the consequences of other persons' vices.


I am not totally in favor of not smoking in public places, but I think that there should be places for smoking and no smoking. For example in a restaurant there should be a section for no smoking people and another section, apart from that, for smoking people. In the case of the aeroplanes, I think it is right no to be allowed to smoke; but in the airport we have to have a section for the smokers, because we have to understand that after a trip of X hours, the anxiety is bigger and they want to smoke, so in that place they could satisfy themselves and people who does not like the smel of cigarretes could not necesarilly pass through that smoking area. In the case of banks or administration offices, I am in favour of no smoking because, it would not be able to divide them in areas, and it would be problematic. In any case a normal person goes to the bank for some specific reason and would not spend too much time, and then he could smoke. For the employers, well, I am in favour of not smoking in working hours, they could maybe smoke in their lunch-time, and when you get a job you know if you could or could not smoke, so you already know with what you are dealing. In open spaces like parks, everyone should be able to smoke because, it is a different atmosphere. In conclusion, I think that there are places where should be completely forbidden, and others where there should be smoking and no smoking areas.


The aim of this composition is related to the marriage of persons of the same sex. Marriage is not only forever (as the Church says) but also it is accompanied by some rights. From my point of view, if people who love each other can choose marrying or not, why cannot homosexual people do the same? Marriage is, in my opinion, a question of love: I love somebody, I want to marry him and there is no problem because the society and all the institutions allow me to marry. Well, I love a woman, I want to marry her. Stop! Because some people could say that we are indecent, a priest will never marry us and other things like these. Am I guilty of loving a woman? Marriage, a difficult decision but it's more difficult if society doesn't give you the opportunity of doing although marriage is the thing that you desire. I think that homosexual people should have the same rights as heterosexual people because all people are human-beings according to God.


This is a very important topic that people should take into account because tobacco is bad for public health. In my opinion smoking in public places should be illegal, because for non-smoking people this could be a problem, because non-smoking people usually are pasive smokers. The smoke is bad for children and even for ill people. Tobacco is bad for smoker people and for those who are near them. In some places smoking is illegal like in hospitals, but I think that is better to make it illegal in every where. If you want to smoke, do it in your house, because in your house you don't disturb other people. Nowadays, is very common to find somebody smoking in a bank, in the bus, in a bar, etc, but if you ask to a non-smoking person this situation could affect them. I don't smoke and I don't care if people smoke in public places if they don't disturb me with the smoke, because some people who smoke are unpolite and put the cigarrete near you or throw the smoke in your face, etc, other people are polite and don't disturb, but in general ways I think that is better to make it illegal, if you want to smoke do it in your house. I understand that smoke is an adition and some people need to smoke when they feel stress or depress or anxious but another people need to relax without supporting the smoke of a cigarrete.


Smoking in public places should be illegal. First at all because people that do not smoke have to breathe the unhealthy air. If I am travelling in a public transport I do not have to "smoke" because of one person. Old people and children are exposed to that air even they do not want to. Nowadays, there are several laws that forbid smoking in public places in general, but smokers have special places where they can smoke. The unhealthy air provoked by tobacco expands all over the room, if you are in a restaurant, or in a public transport, despite of being smoking in that special place. In a normal life, living in a city, you have to breathe unhealthy air everyday. That is, cars, factories or even our houses produce a lot of contaminated air. If we smoke we produce an extra contaminated air that goes directly to our lungs; and also to the rest of people around us. I want to say that it is unfair to non-smokers. If I choose the option that I do not want to smoke; why I have to breathe other's smoke? It is scientifically demonstrated that non-smokers in contact with smokers, in a period of a year, are smoking also the same. I mean, in that faculty I am smoking aroung three cigarettes a day, even I do not smoke. Why if I do not smoke I have to suffer the same consequences? Going on with science, a lot of people began to cof in contact with that air. It is perjudicial for that people. There are specific places wher smoking is allowed, but smokers do not respect that, and go on smoking in all the faculty. During the breaks you can see a great smoke cloud in front of the rooms, or in the hall. So, I think that of that people do not respect us, we do not have to respect them, and they have to be forbidden; they do not have the right to smoke in public places if they do not respect our rights.


From my point of view, I think that nowadays to have an university degree is very important in the sense that you could more offers in the future in order to gain a job but some degrees prepare you more than others in this sense. On the one hand, theoretical university degrees have advantages in the sense that you learn a lot, for example, in this it is essential to know the history and culture of English speaking countries and also the evolution of English language because maybe a day you could travel to London or another city and you could adapt better to its kind of life if you know how they life. On the other hand, I think that theoretical university degrees have disadvantages in the sense that there should be more hours of practices and it also could be small trips to abroad during the summer because the relationship with native speakers of different countries is important because you should accustom to hear different accents. Another disadvantage, from my point of view is that pupils have not a subject in which you can learn to apply English to another ways, excluding learning because there is a subject based on this, but this should be more than one year. What I want to say is that English language can be applied to other matters such as economics, so you could be work in a company. Regarding theoretical university degrees are of very little value, I don't think so, because if you are going to give an English class you can be as good as the math's teacher although he had a lot of practical classes and subjects in his degree. To sum up, I think that learning methods could be better in theoretical university degrees, but the important is that you have a good knowledge of your (especialidad) and when you finish your degree you can also learn how to apply these knowleges to your life, because I think that this is also our task.


In my opinion, smoking in public places must be illegal, because people who smoke annoy the other people that breath their fog and it is so pernicious for the smokers and the people who don't. So many years ago, the laws allowed to smoke in all the places. For example, a passenger in a coach could take a cigarrette and smoke it. This act, disturbed the other passengers that don't have this habit and it provoqued a really condition in the air that people breath. Afortunately, smoking in public places like planes, trains (only in non-smoker wagon), supermarkets, cinemas, educational places, and all the spaces that are closed. But there is an exception to the bares, cafeterias and discos that allow to smoke. I think that if is not allowed to do in a closed space, why is permitted to this places? But I think that the tobacco must be illegal, because it creates addiction and it destroys people inside of them. Their plugs are contaminated and people suffer from many diseases. And this is the reason because the tobacco is so expensive, so it has many taxes. All of the world is against the tobacco, because governements don't allow to advertise tobacco products on the television or in magazines and tobacco companies are crazy to publish their products to sell more. The reason why is not allowed is connected to the kids and young people who smoke very early in their lifes and it provoques cancer in their plugs (if they continue to smoke) or in other organ. If there no exist tobacco in the world people would life more time and all of diseases provoqued by it would erradicate. There wouldn't be problems to legalize or illegalize this and so on. In summary, we have the first step to illegalize the tobacco at all, but in some places it is allowd and from my own, I suffer a lot with this contaminated air and my eyes suffer too. So, it is very positive to have a law that protects non-smokers people that suffer from the others that in many cases don't respect us.


I believe that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because although these people have a different sexual option, which is different which the society has by normal, the heterosexuality, must have the same right because they are also human beings, simply that their sexual option is another. In my opinion this society tries to go of modern but to the hour of legalicing or be allow this type of things, that go more far than the habitual things, it always find something to delay or bury in the bottom of a hole. If this society is really modern and tolerant in these cases wouldn't think so and would act faster, like this do in other situations. Why so polemic by a pair of papers? The wedding, really, are only a pair of papers that say that you are married. Why say no to this petition? The homosexuals are people so normal, or more, that the heterosexuals, and I think that is a silly thing that only by this pact these people can not be happy and have to feel them more aparted by the society, that it believes itself modern.


From my point of view, I think this is a good topic to debate because it's a contemporaneous topic nowadays. About this theme many people have several positions with their respective reasons: On the one hand lots of people think that two persons with the same sex should not get marriage because it's amoral, not natural and atypical. They think it's impossible to be in love between them because they are two men or two women, so it's impossible to get love in that way. On the other hand, and I am included in this position, many people think that two persons of the same sex can be happy perfectly and they have the same rights and values in the same way that heterosexual people. So, if they want to get marriage or to have children, they can get the same posibilities than heterosexual ones. Unfortunately many people in our society are very intolerant each other; the respect to other people would be another interesting topic to debate, but in my way these two topics are very closed. The question is: who is more important that another one? Who has the power to order his/her thoughts? Does anybody seem to God? I think the answer is that if somebody believes that she or he is the most important above the rest of human beings and the society might obey his/her orders... in this case we will find the origin of the problem. People who think superior to another, he will never respect different thoughts, different positions. That kind of people believe that homosexual people are a mixture of a bad education or a bad personality or another nonsense opinions. When you are young, you like girls at school if you are a boy because that is the "obligation". If you are a boy and you like another boy, you get to be a strange person, and it's the society that apart thse ones in that way. In conclusion, they are not homosexual people who feel lonely, it's the society, the big mass of society who does it. In my opinion people with the same sex has exactly the same importance than heterosexual people, so if they want to get marriage, it's perfect.


The question, in my opinion, should be: Why the marriage of persons of the same sex is not allowed? I don't understand why couples of the same sex have more rights than couples of different sex. The marriage is an agreement between two persons, and I think these persons must have the same rights if they are two men, two women or one man and one woman. Nowadays, I think that many people in the spanish society think in homosexual weddings as something normal. Actually, the debate is at the street: politicians, journalists... are always on television discussing about this. The main problem seems to be the adoption: "Is an homosexual couple allowed to adopt children?" This could be a right for a couple formed by a man and a woman but if the couple is formed by two men or two women the thing seems to be more complicated. In my opinion, the important here is not the couple, is not the "father", is not the "mother"; the important here is the child. The important here are the child's rights.



In my opinion, smoking in public places should be illegal because people that don't smoke haven't rights in these places. People that don't smoke never can be in a place where people don't smoke while smoking people have places for smoke (their hauses, their cars, outside, etc.) No smoking people have healthy problems because people that smoke is in everywhere smoking without think about heath of those people. I think that smoking in public places should be prohibited as soon as well because people don't have to breath the mog of this unsensitive smoking people. People that don't smoke only wants that their rights was preserved because if smoking people continue smoking where they want, in fifty years many people will be ill and then it will be too late to try to modifie the activities of smoking people. So smoking in public places have to be changed and then no smoking people is going to have rights in this case, because nowadays only smoking people have rights.


What's marriage?? The union of two people in which love is the base of everything, and it's also a contract, a paper where a couple signs to be registrated as a couple. At that point, we must think about the two parts, who says that one of them must be a woman and the other a man? and what about love?? and respect?? and sharing things?? and helping each other?? I think it doesn't matter what sex is one person, the important thing is that they share the same feelings and both are humans. Nobody must have the power to establish if you can or not get married with somebody you love, musn't they?? This question is also related to the fact of having children, because two men can't have a baby biologically and the same for women, but there are others methods to be parents, adoption, for example is a good solution I think, but here a problem appears: society!! Society could be very cruel with a boy that has two mothers, and maybe this could affect the child; so although I agree with all types of marriages, I consider that first of all, people should change their minds, and accept that happiness has to be accesible for everybody, no matter who they love or they feel.


I'm a smoker, and I think that we should respect to the people who don't smoke because it is bad for their wealth and we don't have any reason for disturb them with the smoke and the smell of our cigarrettes. Although, I disagree with the idea of making smoking illegal, because we are not criminals, we pay a lot of money in taxes each time we buy a cigarrettes' packet and we are responsibles of our wealth. On the other hand, I think that the idea of separate spaces for smokers and no-smokers in public places is good. But appropiate spaces, no little places that seem boxes or jails where the smokers appear as displaced people. Nowadays, the idea of this little boxes is becoming a reality, but is unfair, because I believe in the idea of the mutual respect. Appropiate spaces for smokers and no-smokers is a right, and this task is reponsability of the Govern because it is earning a lot of money with tobacco's taxes. The Govern is increasing this taxes continuously and is not supporting good publicity for prevent to the childs and teenagers from the dangers of smoking. This task is not only TV announces. We have to begin from schools, making the childs know the consequences and the risks of this habit with chats, videos, photos, etc. But this is not a task only for teachers. Parents, uncles, friends... all us have to cooperate (smokers included) in the task of prevent our childs explaining to them the consequences. Illegalicy will not repair nothing because smokers are going to continue with their habit while other people surely will become rich exploiting this business illegaly. I think that this reason is enough. Moreover, I'm sure that the Govern will never want to lose all the money of the tobacco's taxes because petrol is expensive enough. Don't you think?


Why not? Why the marriage of persons of the same sex shouldn't be allowed? In my opinion I can't find a real reason to forbid this kind of marriages. I think that the most important reason to get married with someone is that you are really in love with that person, and ... can't gays be in love? I think that we are all persons and we all have the right to fall in love, to cry, to laught ... haven't they? Probably, if people who write the laws were gays they can understand gays more. But I think it is simple, if you are in love with somebody and you want to share your life with him or her there are no problems in the fact that there is a man, a woman or even your brother or sister. Do they disturb you? It doesn't matter for me if my neighbour has a boyfriend, a girlfriend or if he or she lives alone with his/her cat. Well, in my opinion the solution is to educate people since they are children because you never know if your son or daughter will be gay. And if he or she will ... won't you love him or her?


I've have chosen option 1. I think it's a good method to stop tobacco's consume. Moreover, people who don't smoke don't have to be perjudicated because of the smoke of the others. If you want to smoke you should do it alone or with other smokers, this is my opinion. You shouldn't disturb other people, or children who don't smoke. They don't have to breath the smoke and perjudicate their health only because of the fact that you need or you want to smoke a cigarrette. Smoking is very unhealthy, it can cause cancer or other sickness, if you don't mind to take one of this illness think in the rest of the people, probably they don't want to be sick neither to perjudicate their lungs. Smoking isn't good at all: it's unhealthy, it smells really bad; the smoke disturb people; your fingers and teeth became yellow and finally it's very difficult to give up. On the other hand, from the point of view of a smoker, it would be a pain in the neck. It would really disturb me to can't smoke a cigarrette while I'm drinking a coffee or a coke, or after have lunch.


According to my point of view, the marriage between people of the same sex could be allowed, but in my opinion a marriage of the same sex isn't the same than a marriage between people of the different sex. I'm not racist, but I think that women and men are neccesary both of them in a relation of couple and over all in a marriage.I spoke about this theme with some friends and always it's the same conclusion. For me, two persons of the same sex can do the same things than two persons of the different sex sometimes. For instance, they can do the same works in house but they cannot educate children by the same way than a couple of the different sex. But this is only in my opinion, I respect other opinions. I think that a mother teachs different things than a father and the oposite. A mother is more comprensive and sentimental for me in some cases, and a father is more objective, he's sentimental too but he doesn't question for your personal problems. I think than a father tries to give you a good education and a mother helps you in your personal problems and both of them are neccesary for me.


First of all, nowadays the marriage of persons of the same sex is a situation very complicated in these days. We have many points of view in our country. On one hand, there are many persons who are living this situation. They are persons like all the world but they like same sex. Here we have a problem why they have not the same rights? Our society is not prepared for differents forms of life. The society and values are traditionals. But people are helping to a new change. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex must be allowed. The time is go on and it is another point of view about marriage. Men and women have right to choosing the form of life and the union who they decide. On the other hand, there is an opposition enough hard in our society. In many opinions this class of marriage is not good. For example, a very important opposition is the church. Because church consider traditional values of marriage. Marriage between man and woman for the procreation. Here is another problem: the procreation. The marriage of persons of the same sex cannot procreate. But we have one possibility: the adoption of children. Finally, I think that this marriage is a new situation presented in nowadays. It is a normal marriage with a little change: persons of the same sex and why not?


Smoking in public places should be illegal. It is very naughty to stay in a place where there are a lot of people smoking and you don’t like smoke. For instance, when you go out at night and in a pub with a lot of people there is somebody smoking. It could be very dangerous. Also, when you are in a caffee with some friends and there is somebody smoking your clothes smell horrible. For all these reasons, I think that smoking in public places should be banned. However, I think that smoking in the street would be legal. When I say public places I mean in pubs, caffees, shops, etc. I consider these places as close places. The street is an open place and it is different. Nowadays, people know that smoking is very dangerous. It could cause cancer and other illness. It is a really thing that a lot of people die as a consequence of the tobacco. People start to smoke when they are very young. They think that it is very cool, but they never think about the consequences. It is very important to explain young people the danger of smoke. Moreover, it is important to reduce places where it is allowed to smoke because people who don’t smoke have the right to be without the horrible smell of tobacco.


Smoking is considered as a free action so anyone is also free t do it, although the majority of our population smoke, there are also a lot of people who don’t like fire’s cigarette. As a consequence of this situation I see very reasonable that a series of rules have been created for smokers. However I believe that it’s extremely “hard” for this people (I’m not a smoker) that smoking in public places was considered an illegal action. From my point of view people should find an intermediate situation by means both “kind of people”, that is to say, smokers and non-smokers, are well in public places without converting smoking in an illegal action. So I think there can be many solutions. For instance in all public places like bars, pubs ... there should be places for smokers and places for no-smokers (the middle of the public place for one of them and the other for the others). In many sites this places have been already created but not all of them. A very hard and real situation is that nowadays young people start to smoke at 12 or 13 years old so they obviously want to smoke in schools and a good solution should be, if it’s necessary, put security guards to control them. It’s very extreme however I think that the solutions have to be very hard because it isn’t enough the photographs or hard sentences which appear in the “cigarette boxes”.


I think that smoking should be illegal in public places, because I am a non-smoking person, and I don’t have to breath other people’s smoke. I’m not against smoking people, but there should be a law which regularized the smoking areas. There are some places, where smoking is already illegal, such as public transports (bus, plane, train), and other installations such as restaurants or hotels, which have some special areas for smokers. Smoking became a dangerous and bad habit among young people, who already start smoking at an early age, thirteen years or even earlier, which has very bad consequences for their health. One of the reasons why they start smoking is that they want to imitate one of their older friends, who is a smoker, too. They also think that if they smoke they are more popular among their classmates, or that smoking will help them to find a boyfriend or girlfriend. Moreover, they don’t realize causes very bad illnesses, such as deterioring their lungs, or even worst, causing cancer. Most of my friends are smokers, and it annoyes me a lot when we are in a public place and the whole smoke comes into my lungs. I tryed to convince them of stopping smoking, but it had very little effect on them. I heard that the Government was going to prohibit smoking in public places within two or three years. Well, smoking is something really awful, but the only positive thing you can find in smoking is the shares in a smoking enterprise in the stock-market, which are surely to go up.


First of all, we need to see the person and not the sexual condition of everyone. If two persons are falling in love and they want to be a formal couple and sign a contract to be legal their relationship, is perfectly normal. Don’t mind if the sex of the couple are the same, isn’t important, the only important condition in the relationship is that they love each other and not think the sex. We could think something that the situation was diferent: the marriage between persons of diferent sex was the extrange thing, and the normal situation was the marriage between persons of the same sex, think about if this persons would permit the marriage. It’s dificcult to understand that if two persons are falling in love to each other, why not to get marriage?, it’s only a paper, but it’s a paper with a lot of meaning, a paper that heterosexuals don’t give the value, because is something that always be there, and with the pass of the years, this situation would be arrive to be normal for everyone. They don’t be surrender because if women had surrender the last century, nowadays we can’t vote. The real problem is that the persons that controlle the country are old peole, and they were educated in a strict education and they think that this is “contra-natura”, and they don’t see the person, only the sex of the person xx, for young people this is completly normal, because the education is more open and tolerant but an important point of view is the actitud of our parents, if they think that their education was correct, they will teach to their children that this is a horrible thing, but in the other way, if they know that they live in a strict period they try to change the bad influences and educated their descendences in a more tolerant world and to allowe that everybody can be happy and live their lifes in the way that they choose. We will fight for our rights and superate the prejudges because later on it will be produce more dificcult situations.


Smoking is an addition that affects many people in the world. In my opinion smokers should respect the people who don’t smoke, but this is very difficult to get without laws. I think that is necesary to get free of tobacco places like busses, trains or other little closed spaces because people that don’t smoke can be unconfortable breathing the tobbaco smoke. On the other hand we have places such as cafeteries, pubs, halls of public buildings... that I think must allow to smoke, unless they are very little. Tabbaquism is a big problem in the world, there is a lot of people in each village that smoke, so it is difficult to forbide them smoking in some public places. I think that one option could be to destinate some spaces specifically to this, for example, in a big company workers must stay many hours at the place of work, if they are smokers they need to smoke, the problem is that there are other workers that don’t smoke and don’t like the smell of the tobbaco. There should be a room specifically dedicated to these smokers. The problem of this decision is that no smokers can complain because smokers have little breaks each time that they want to smoke a cigarrette, but this have a very difficult solution. In conclusion I think that smokers must take care of the comfortability of the people that don’t have this habbit and don’t smoke in places in which it may be disliked.


My opinion about university degrees is very clear: I think that, although there are some exceptions, they don't prepare students to face a new life, together with its problems. University is a world apart from real world. We learn and we work, but always knowing that here we have limits. Our work is theoretical, maybe we are learning very useful things to the future (I hope so) but I think that it is not enough. We need much more, much more practice and specialisation. Theory is useful just if we are capable of aplying it to a work, and I feel that in the university this fact is quite forgotten. At least this is my opinion as far as my career is concerned, because although I am aware of all interesting things I am learning, when I think of future, I don't see myself as a good and complete profesional. Far from that, sometimes I feel that I would need more time to finish my career and being comfortable at my knowledge. Even though, I think that the time is not the problem here. To me, the solution should begin with a reformation of the educative system, not only in university, but also in school and highschool, with a more varied, complete and practical teaching, because maybe the level we actually have in university is the result of former errors. And, of course, a reformation on university, with a more profesional teaching, thinking of future, because students can't be five or six or even more years studying a career and, when they finish it, they can't work because they are not ready, this is a loss of time, money and mind. Even though, I'm not saying at all that university degrees are not useful. I think they prepare us as persons and they give us a global education, but maybe we would need a more specific one.


In my opinion, the most of the university degrees are theoretical and do not prepare students for the real world. There is a small number of practical classes to the students. I'm studying English filology. This is my 3rd year and I only have one class in which we must talk, once a week. I think that it is a very small time. In my case,talk in english is one of the most important things; and, if you can't go to the countries in which the english is the native tongue, you can't learn it. If you want to learn it, you must look for it in other places. I know that a filology is more than learn a language, but I think that we need some more practical classes. In our studies' programme, there's a lot of literature subjects and less of language. You won't be a great specialist in filology, if you do not know the language well. I'm talking about my case, because it is the best I know; but, in my opinion, it is the same in other studies. Nowadays, the university makes its center on the theoretical classes, and leaves the practical. This is something which is reflected when you look for a job. In other studies,not the university, there is more practice, so when that person looks for a job, it is probably that he or she can work on it. When you have not practical classes, you must work only on what you have studied. In my case, if I would want to work on translation; maybe I couldn't, because there will be another persons who have studied that, so they've got preference. If I'm studying english filology, people can suppose that I talk in english very well; but not, so I couldn't work like a translator. If my work depends on my practical classes, I could only work like an english teacher, maybe. But, if I don't want to work like a teacher, what can I do?I have to look for my own classes. So,I think the number of practical classes are not enough; and we are not prepared for the real world.


At the begining the first question is a little difficult to talk about it because the problem of smoking is in each person, and each one is aware to do what he or she wants. In my view smoking in public places should be illegal due to differeent things: on the one hand smoking is a very bad habit which hurts a lot our health and it can become a dangerous drug. However every time there are more people who smoke and they dont think about the consecuences that smoking has to. Furthermore I believe that people really unknow the true place where they are coming into and of which going out is almost impossible. On the other hand there are some people who can’t stand the smell of tobacco, and as it’s very dangerous for health, people who smoke shouldn’t do it in public places, but it’s a rule with which smokers don’t agree. Athough smoking is a very important problem in our society, we can’t unfortunately do anything because, furthermore, it’s an habit which is very difficult to leave it and a lot of persons aren’t able to get it. I know that it’s almost impossible to change the view of a smoker, but I hope among all people we will get to help people who want to leave smoking. But for this it’s necessary to try it, as least.


I think that smoking in public places should be illegal. Nowadays in most of the places smoking is prohibited but there are still some of them where it can smoke. These places are very incomoded and each more time the ex-smokers and no-smokers increase their number. In last time, few years ago, we could smoke in all places. The new was smoking. If you smoked, you were fashion. We were talking about the 60s, when the freedom and the discontrol began in this country. It could smoke in the “cafés” (of course); in the University, even when you were doing an exam or when you were assisting at class ... At schools, the most of teachers smoked, and they did it when they were imparting the lesson. Doctors and nurses smoked at the hospital too. To sump, if you didn’t smoke in 60s, you whould be a very bizarre person; and people what had breathy illness, you whould feel too bad. But, nowadays it is knowing the problems of smoking, and a lot of people are trying give it up. It’s very difficult because cigarettes are a drug, a light drug but they are a drug because they give us adiction. There are some methods to try give up, such us some books, nicotine chewing-gums, vitaminics diets, help psicologist help... Each more time tabacco increases its prize, “Tabacalera” ( bussines of tabacco in Spain) is not totally of the State, places where it cannot smoke are more, the State is prohibiting smoking in for trips by train, in the busses, in State’s offices... Now if you smoke, you will be a very bizarre person.


I have chosen the third option: “Should the marriage of persons of the same sex be allowed?” because I think that it’s an interesting and common subject nowadays in our world. Although I am a progressive person not everybody is as me: there are a lot of people who still live in days of the dictature and they have untolerant opinions about that. In my oppinion, in this society is still very difficult to show our sensibilities, our emotions, our thinkings, our opinions ... in public, we try to have the maximum information about our lives in ourself. Why we get this position? Simply, because all we would do will be critiqued by the others. The marriage between people of the same sex is only one of the innumerable moral problems that they exist in this planet. Only a courage person can exhibite her preferences in public in spite of the sayings. I think that this is a correct but difficult position but, with people like that, the world would be easier. I agree about bringing an opportunity to the homosexual persons because it is something normal in our days; they are persons too!!they don’t make harm to nobody!! It would be fantastic that would exhist an equality between us. They can’t forbide to express our preferences!it is our live! It is our decition!! Love hasn’t fronteries. It’s a hard feel ... I think it’s important to change the mind of a lot of people who don’t understand that it’s a big problem to the homosexual persons. I look forward that, in the future, it would be easier to live, simply to live, and to can choose our elections.


In my opinion I think that marriage should be allowed between people of the same sex; in fact, a law that allows persons of the same sex to get married has been approved in Spain a few days ago. I think it is a good step in society because every one should have the same rights and should be equal in terms of justice although their feelings, ideas, tastes, sexual inclinations .... are different. We have to learn to accept people, we have to be tolerant in the same way other people is tolerant with us, we have to be respectful with the individuality of each person and behave in such a way that the other person feel comfortable. At the beginning there may be people that feel puzzled by the fact that people of the same sex can get married; these people are usually people of advanced age with fixed ideas in the past that find difficult to accept the changes. I think that couples of the same sex also have to have the same advantages as other couples formed from different sexs. I guess that persons of the same sex should be able to addopt children. I think it is a good choice for both the couples of the same sex because they can’t have a child by their own and the children because there are a lot of children that are abandoned and they sometimes live in bad conditions. It is good for a couple to bring a child up because in this way they can have the opportunity of being parents, because if the addoption isn’t allowed between couples of the same sex, there will be cases in which the paternity will be a imposible matter, as for example in the case of a couple formed by two men. The couples of the same sex if they are married they also can have the advantage of receiving a sum of money every month if any member of the couple dies and the other becomes a widower. In the case of being heirs it would be easier if they are married to receive the inheritance, and if they are not married may be, there will be many problems to become in a heir.


I think that when I get my degree in english Philology, I will know a lot of things that won’t help me at all either in my laboral life or in my normal life. Some people, when they finish their degree know a lot of practical things (for example, how to control certain machines of industry, or computers). This practical things can help them in their laboral life and make them usefull members of our so call modern society. But when students of Philology yet their degree what do they know? A lot of things about sintactic analisys that I think are usefull and stupid. Well, when we finish our degree we also know something about history and literature, and for me this is an important knowledge, because in my opinion, in order to understand the present is a good thing to know the past. Well, we know about literature and history, and also we should know how to speak english (but if you finish English Philology and you haven’t stayed abroad you won’t know english) but, what can we do with this knowledge, for example, teach somebody what we know, for the want of money. I think education is a lie and the title that we get is only one way of classify us and make us more competitive.


I really think that most university degrees are theorical and do not prepare students for the real world. When I started to study English Philology at the university, what I really surprised me was that the level of “English Language” was very low. I realized that in high school, I had more level of English language, in vocabulary for example. I think that at university is important a good base of grammar, that is tought at high school, but on another hand, I think that at university, we have to study morphology (theorical and practical terms), phonetics and phonology, syntax, history, literature ... many theorical knowledges, but What’s wrong with Orality? I think that the most important thing of leaning a language is Orality, speaking. The aim of languages in the world is communication. For communicating us, we need grammar, but not only grammar, we need more practise on Speaking. For becoming in good Phylologists, we need know some basic notions of the culture of the country, because in the different languages there are some terms, words that only the people of that country says, and this is very important. I think that students of university know about grammar but no so much about these words or sentences characteristics of the country. In my opinion and to sum up, I think that the big aim of the English language teachers must be to teach many vocabulary (formal and colloquial) and Speaking, so the student will be more prepared.


In my opinion, I think that tobacco is very bad for all the people, people who smokeand people who receivethe smoke. The smokers don’t really feel all the bad elements that there are in a cigarrette at the moment that they introduce it in them months and absorve the smoke, but years later they feel the bad consecuences: they have the teeth yellow, them throught are very perjudicated, them laugs are full of smoke, them neils of the fingers that they used to take the cigarrette are yellow, ... also when they play some sport or they run, they quickly feel tired, because tobacco reduce the health of people. In plubic places smoke all the people, moreover if the place is closed. For example, in a bar, where there is twenty tables, if there is one or two smokers in each table, the place is full of smoke that it is received for all the people who stay there. I don’t think that it thing could be legal, because in this way everybody pay the consecuences that are produced for some people.


In my opinion marriage of persons of the same sex have to be allowed. We are always saying that we are in a new world, a liberal and tolerate world. We are always saying that we are sure that we are liberal people but, is this really? I think is true to say that many of us are lieying. When we are walking along the street and we see a couple of women or a couple of men kissing, we can’t avoid look at them. I’m not saying that this is a bad thing, because I know that this situation is a little bit strange to us at the beginning. But I hope that in little time we’ll get acostumbrated to it. The Spanish Government have just aprobated a law which says that marriage between persons of the same sex are allowed. I think that aprobe this law is a good thing to our society, because little by little this will us more tolerated. It is said that the government should aprobe the law that will permit homesexual couples to adopt children. I’m not sure that it is a good idea because I think that children at school are very bad, and that can determinate the sexual condition of the boy or of the girl but, the time will say that! Each person can have a different opinion but I think that it is normal, each people can have his own opinion. Well, I think that it is a very complicated subject, but in few years I’m sure that, if we don’t change of government, all these laws will be aprobed.


There are many opinions about this particular topic, because this is a controversial thing. On the one hand, the Church supports the opinion of not allowing these marriages, because it's said that God wouldn't permit them and it's against Nature. On the other hand, the Government is trying to allow marriages of persons of the same sex, although there are many doubts about it. From my point of view these marriages should be allowed, because love doesn't understand about religion and politic. However, I have many doubts about adopting children, because it could be a big problem for them. Let's put an example: Children would feel a bit different from the others if they had two fathers instead of one father and one mother. As I am concerned, I desagree with all those people who don't want persons of the same sex to marry, because everyone can do what they want if they don't disturb other people. We cannot tell other persons what they should do, but I know some persons that think they can, like a friend of mine who doesn't accept people who don't think as he does. This is not fair, because if everybody made the same we all couldn't live in peace and we would kill everybody. Why don't we let them do what they want? I would feel bad if someone told me who I have to marry with.


Nowdays, there are many polemic situations and opinions about the marriage of persons of the same sex. There are different minds about the allow of htese marriages. It’s normal, because it’s difficult choose the right option. Anybody have to can understand that the marriage is the union of two persons, not necessary a man and a woman. If we follow and accept this, it can’t be a problem allow this kind of marriages. So that, many problems of convivence would be resolve. For the law, this marriage would be legal and they would have the same rights and responsabilities. But a marriage also have others responsabilities apart from money, the house, etc.. Have a son or a daugther can be other responsability or consecuence of the marriage. A son or a daugther will make more difficult that it be accept. We can understand they can love it like any parents, but the rest of society maybe can not accept. The bigger problem will be the rest of children. They are very naive and they will be the first in ask for the mother or the father that isn’t. They will ask: “ Why I don’t have mother (or father) and my parteners do?”, or his parteners ask to his parents: “Why X has two fathers and no mother?” What will we answer them? For me, it’s the real problem about the marriage of persons of the same sex. I think same things can be allow, but not all.


Nowadays, it’s being tried to forbide smoking in public places in many countries. In my opinion, it isn’t the best solution because people who smoke would probably feel discriminated and in part they would have the reason. I think that smoking isn’t a good habit but we can’t forbide people to smoke and this solution proposed means that smokers couldn’t make whtat they usually make and probably they need it a lot. I really believe that there must be other solution for this problem because it is a big problem. By the one hand we find the people who smoke and want to continue smoking and by the other hand we find the people who doesn’t smoke and don’t want to take the smoke from the others. Both the smokers and the non-smokers have their reasons and the solution for the problem should satisfie both groups. So I consider that one possible solution and perhaps the better would be that there were two spaces divided in public places as restaurants, trains ... This solution already works in some places but I know that in other places is very difficult to do this division. And even it could happen that many people felt discrimintated with this possibility. Besides, very complicated situations could be produced, for example if a family goes to a restaurant and some members of this family are smokers but the other ones aren’t the situation only could be arranged by them and if the people were friends it would even be more difficult. To sum up, although I don’t smoke I think that smoking in public places shouldn’t be illegal but the solutions for the problem are very difficult to find.


In my view, the marriage of persons of the same sex must be allowed. In spite of the fact that I think that the marriage isn’t important, the relationships of persons of the same sex are likely to want to get married becaose this offers them a lot of legal advantages. It’s horrible that a couple who has been living in partner for a years, if one of them dies or desappears, the other wouldn’t have any rights and profites. I think the law should help them because many times they have been nearer of the dead than their family. I don’t understand why there are still people who fight against these kind of marriages. If two persons love each other, why should mind the sex of them? When you fall in love, you fall in love with a person: body and soul. Fruethermore in my opinion, the most important is the second. Although the most of people no longer desagree with the relations of persons of the same sex. Nowadays the society is more tolerant and I think that can’t afford to stand in the past, our wold is openning his eyes and we should do the same.


I think that all the persons are free to choose the person who they’re going to stay. This problem isn’t a new theme of this times, there have been always this problem, a lot of people are homosexuals, even a lot of famous people! The marriage between them should be allowed by the law because nobody can say who should like them. These people have or should have the same rights like others. Wherever you go always there is people that have a bad idea about this, they have a ‘close mind’, a lot of this problems came from the education of this people. If you grow in a family where you learn that all people are free to choose and they have to be respected like they have to respect you, a place where you learn to grow without prejudices, that will be better; for that I think the bottom of this problem is in the education that you receive since you’re little. When this law is let, there will be other problem. These people like every mariage would like adopt children or have them theirselves if they can, in the case of women, but in the case of men that would be impossible! I think that the society isn’t prepared to these changes, it would be a hard situation for them, for children because they would suffer humilations from this partners in the school or in other places; and this would do that these children hate each to others, and even to parents. The ideal situation could be a ‘change of mind’ in order to these future generations don’t suffer. That isn’t right that these people feel embarrased by their sexual condition.



Due to the great impact of smoke-free policies and laws and to the great importance that debates on tobacco have lately acquired, it has become a problem that concerns everybody. First of all, I have to say that I am a non-smoker, so my position goes against tobacco. It is well known that tobacco does not only prejudices active smokers but also people around them. If you live with a smoker you can endure this situation or even lay down your own rules but, what about public places? A smoker should understand that whenever he lights a cigarette in a public place everybody there immediately becomes passive smokers without their consent. Smokers should learn to be more tolerant and control their addition when they are surrounded by other persons. Now that the authorities have banned tobacco in public places the number of people who smoked there would decrease considerably. However, there are people that completely depend on it, so, to my way of thinking, they would ignore this prohibition. Inspite of everything, the pros of banning smoking in these type of places are much more strong and reasonable that the cons. I agree with the measures taken by the Government, including that of the elimination of all kinds of tobacco advertisements and the transmission of anti-smoking adds instead. They want to make us understand that holding a cigarette is so absurd as playing a party blower. Tobacco cannot be eradicated all of a sudden, that is why the Government does not ban the commercialization with this product. It would lead to a chaotic reaction of the population. Obviously, the complete illegalization of tobacco would also carry many economic implications and the authorities are not willing to be exposed to problems of the like. From my point of view, a regulation was necessary. Moreover, many people find in the anti-smoking law the perfect opportunity to give up smoking and some of them have already looked for professional help. It is an important step, as the number of cancer victims increases every year; the WHS is constantly warning about the health consequences on smoking. Although the effects of tobacco are not so damaging for passive smokers, we also have to take into consideration that there are people who find cigarette smoke unpleasant. So smokers must understand that tobacco bothers those persons who cannot bear the smell of their clothes after leaving a close room where people have been smoking. Some employers have adopted this new law turning their businesses into smokefree dining sites, bars and so on. But the hospitality industry argues this would give some employers an unfair advantage over others which continue to permit smoking. Now, we have no alternative but to wait for the right working of this recent law. However, for the time being, many employers have already suggested their employees not to leave their posts to go out and smoke a cigarette. They allege that it would imply a considerable reduction of labour time.


The main reason for that is that the smoking can be dangerous to non-smokers. The most of non-smokers feel themselves uncomfortable when they are with smokers, and the worst of all is that their own health can suffer because of it. So this is the reason for what smoking will be illegal in public places. However, people are not conscious of that and it will be difficult not to allow them to smoke. Nowadays people hasn't in mind their own health so just think about others is impossible. The best solution begins to educate from childhood that smoke can affect yourself and people's around you. And if it is too late, make an extra effort to do it. In the last few years, goverment have make an aggressive compain to tobbaco companies and also they have informed people how dangerous are cigarrettes. Goverment's attitude had been so hardly that tobbaco industry sell their products as cancer producters. Others countries or public places has decide to adecuate a smoker and a non-smoker suit, so people now is divided into smoker, and non-smoker rather than in group of friends. This is a placebo because of they can't reeducate people in that sense. Society has an important role on this. More than society is culture which has made people to smoke. Most of people has begun to smoke because his or her friend did. To conclude the best solution has been the reeducation, and changing of culture of people, but it is planted so deeply that it impossible. Finally the goverment has attacked cigarrettes companies to terminate with this problem that not only affects to smokers.



In my opinion, people who smoke should have the right to do it, but at the same time, non-smokers don't need to be bothered with their habits. The important thing is where it can be allowed to smoke. For instance, I consider as public places anywhere which is outside our own houses, so under this label would be: streets, cafeterias, shops,... In closed places, it should be illegal to smoke because the smoke stays there and it's very perjudicial to the other people. Outside, in the streets, it shouldn't be illegal, as the smoke disipate easily so it is not so perjudicial. Another possibility could be to book some areas inside bars, pubs,... for only smokers and other for non smokers. What I think it's going to difficult to get it's that people stop smoking inside discoteques. I do not myself smoke, but it is even difficult for me to imagine a discoteque without the smoke of the cigarrettes of other people. Some people consider that it would not be the same. I think it would be nice to go out from a disco without smelling to smoke, because if not, you have to wash all your clothes only you wear it just for a while. The most important fact to make illegal smoking in public places is related to the diseases it can bring. In addition, it seems the problems caused by cigarretes are worse in non-smokers (that is passive smokers because they inhale the smoke of others) than in smokers.


I think that smoking in public places should be illegal because if a person doesn't smoke but this is in a public place where the people around it are smoking, it can be annoying for this person. Furthermore, it can be prejudicial. It also can be an aid for people that smoking because in this way a lot of this people don't smoke in the future. I think that people smoke for habit because when you are in a bar or caffetery and you are having a coffee or beer around you, there are a lot of people smoke and it can infer in that you also smoke. So if all the people don't smoke in public place when you don't see anybody smoke you don't also want a cigarrette. On the other hand people that not smoke if they are in a peace where the people are smoking they are inhaling the smoke and this is bad for their healthy. And I think that people that not smoke don't have why inhale smoke if they don't want. For that reason, I think that smoke in public place should be illegal, for the people that don't smoke. Finally I think that only should be legal to smoke in the streets, open places or in their own houses.


From my point of view, university degrees are probably part-useful for the real world. In other words, the content of degrees should be reviewed in depth and more oftenly. Most of subjects I've had to do are worthless and people just consider them as subjects which will reduce your HUGE amount of credits for completing your grade. But there are a few other subjects I found interesting and useful at the same time. These ones combined with some practical hours would be more accurate for preparing future professional in each area. My experience in other universities provided me knowledge about alternatives in educational systems. I think investigation is better than exams.


I agree with the topic of this composition in some way, so I will explain my position from my personal case. There are some university degrees as the one I am finishing this year, English Phylology, in which you are not prepared to what most of the students want to do in the future, become a teacher. This degree focuses to a great extent on linguistics and literature, leaving methodology apart. Methodology is necessary if you want to teach in the future, and it is an optional rather than a compulsory course to be followed. Subjects like these focus on practice more than in theory, they show the students how to behave in their future jobs. The great load of literature and linguistic knowledge you acquire during the degree is really useful if you want to follow a PHD afterwards, but this is not the case of the majority of students. But the case of English Phylology is not an isolated one. The rest of phylologies have the same problem, and apart from that, degrees like Computers have a similar situation. Students decide to do this degree because they like computers and know how to use them and what they find is a great load of physics and theory, mainly during the first and second year. Due to this, students are choosing more and more to follow a kind of course that is taken in the high school instead of in the universities, and lasts less than three years. In the last year you are given the chance to put your knowledge in practice in an enterprise. These courses are not very important for their C.V. but some people are given the chance to keep on working in the enterprises and their contracts are no longer temporal. I think that degrees should be more oriented to the proffessional future and to the necessity of students interested in taking a specific job (teacher, computer engeneering). To solve this they should make the two first years of each degree common to every student and then separate them in a group for the ones who want to take a PHD and another group for the ones who are more interested in find a job as soon as possible.


The marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed. It's unfair because as human beings all of us have the same rights. First of all, some people don't accept it but it must not be important because maybe homosexuals do not accept marriage between heterosexuals. I think it is unfair because everybody in the same country should have the same opportunities. They are also people that want make a family. Too many people is probably worried about the future, about a world ful of homosexuals, but the point is that a wide range of important and brilliant authors have been known as homosexuals through decades, as Federico Garcia Lorca or Oscar Wilde. If people do not care of that and think about the brilliant careers of these men, why do not people think of the personal qualities of every person? Some people treat homosexuality as an illness. Why is not discrimination an illness or pathology? Government treat it as a problem, but is not, it is a fact. Then, goverment should think more deeply of other real problems. That marriage is only something that has to be done and some citizens will need time to approve it.


The Government shouldn't ban in public places because people who don't smoke enjoy of some free places of tobacco but what happens with people who smoke? I agree that we must preserve places where people can't smoke for no-smokers because they have their rights to not breathe the polluted air. However, smokers have their right too to smoke in any part but at least in a specific place. The new law doesn't allow to smoke in pubs, clubs, etc. and this is one of the places where people more have cigarettes so it will be a problem for the owners and for the customers. Moreover, it is a contradiction that the Government bans are of its big incomes; in one hand the Government is absolutely against the consume of tobacco because is worse for the health, everybody agrees, but in the other hand is one of the bigger incomes of it and everyday we can find cheaper brands of tobacco, which is helpful for young people; this is what the Government must control, don't make young consumers, that is my point of view the key of the problem.


WHAT'S MARRIAGE? IS IT JUST A MATTER OF RELIGION, OR A MATTER OF CIVIL RIGHTS? BOTH OPTIONS ARE VALID, BECAUSE ANYONE CAN GET MARRIED BECAUSE OF RELIGIOUS BELIEFS, OR WITH THE AIM OF GETTING SOME CIVIL RIGHTS. WHEN PERSONS OF THE SAME SEX ARE ATTEMPTING TO GET MARRIED, THEY ARE SUPPOSED TO HAVE THE REASONS EXPLAINED ABOVE. BUT JUST WHEN PEOPLE EXPRESS THEIR REFUSAL TO HOMOSEXUAL MARRIAGES, THEY ARE SEPARATING THIS COLECTIVE FROM THE REST OF SOCIETY, ALIENATING AND SEGREGATING THEM. ON ONE HAND, I THINK THIS ATTITUDE IS NOT FAIR BECAUSE ONE'S SEXUAL TENDENCY IS NOT DETERMINED BY RELIGIONS, SO YOU MAY BE GAY AND, AT THE SAME TIME, HAVE A STRONG BELIEF IN YOUR GOD. ON THE OTHER HAND, MARRIAGE IS SUPPOSED TO BE BASED ON LOVE, AND THIS CONCEPT OF LOVE HAS BEEN ALTERED THROUGH HISTORY BY RELIGIONS AND OTHER SOCIAL FACTORS. IN MY OPINION, WHEN YOU FALL IN LOVE WITH SOMEONE, THAT "SOMEONE" SHOULD BE A PERSON, AND NOT A SPECIFIC GENDER. I MEAN, YOU MAY LIKE A PERSON, INDEPENDENTLY OF HIS OR HER SEX; I DON'T SEE THE POINT IN LIMITING OURSELVES IN ADVANCE. BESIDES, OUR THOUGHTS SHOULD REFLECT THE WORLD IN WHICH WE LIVE TODAY, INSTEAD OF THINKING ABOUT LOVE AS A MATTER OF REPRODUCTION.


It is really amazing this question, for the last months the debate about marriage of persons with the same sex has increased enormously, all the sectors in the society and even between the different political parties; in fact, they are those who are creating the social conflict; are showing their own opinions and ideas about, from my point of view, something what is really basic and clear: marriage between homosexual people must be allowed, and there is no genuine idea which makes face to it actually. Conservative people and those who came from church and groups called "Family Association" or something similar have been creating conflicts and problems; they have been making demonstrations, promoting antique and rude ideas, and, specially, they have been insulting the gay sector, something, from my point of view, absolutely disgusting. This people, those who, 30 years before, were next to the fascists trying to stop a democratic transition, should think that we are in 21st century, ideas have changed, people have changed, the society have changed and, ("fucking hell!") we are in Democracy!! A marriage between persons of the same sex is not dangerous for no one at all. If my neighbours, my friends, whoever want to get married and they are gay, I am not going to opposite, I am, just, going to support them.


I am a person who does not smoke. On the one hand, I do not like very much when there are a lot of people smoking around me, because it makes me ill. Apart from this, it does not bore me when two or three people are smoking in the same place I am, because I consider that if there was a place where they could stay smoking, they would be there. Fortunately, five days ago a new law was introduced into society. What this law establishes is that all public establishments must decide if they are for smokers or non-smokers. If they are for both, they must be divided into two zones: people who smoke and people who do not smoke. I like this law very much, because in this way, in all public places (pubs, and so on) all people will be comfortable: people who smoke are comfortable all together in one place and in other place of the establishment are the people who do not smoke. Regarding to public places, I think this law is the solution, but before it I can understand that people smoked in public places. On the other hand, there are people who really hate tobacco because it makes them ill. So, I also can understand that this people do not allow smokers near them. These are two different types of having into account the people who smoke: people who allow them smoke in public places and people who do not. Before the new law, this was a very difficult situation for them, but nowadays it is different, it was a very positive change. Two months ago, I was in a Café with a friend of mine, and the woman who was in the front table began to smoke. This fact does not bore me, but the couple who were near us began to cough; they looked at the woman in a threatening way and then they went out. The woman who was smoking light off the cigar and drunk her coffee. This was a compromising situation for her. I do not know how I would react if I were a smoker person and I was in situation like that. I agree with people who smoke in a public place (like a pub) but I think they can be a bit "solidarios" and smoke in a moment when there are not too many people around them. If there are a lot of people in a concrete moment, they (smokers) can wait until a time when this people went away. And over all, I think they would never smoke when there are babies around them. In conclusion, I understand that there were two different possitions regarding to smoking in public places. In my particular point of view, I do not think it should be illegal but what I consider is that smokers should have into account the moment when they light on the cigar and be careful about the people they have around them. They must have into account if there are babies or old people near them, because they are the most fragile, sensitive people, but also people who are ill and tobacco hurt them. With the new law these problems have been resulted.


Each person is different and should be free to make decisions of his/her own life. If someone wants to marry a person of his/her same sex, it is his/her decision and no one can avoid it. If it happens it is because that person is not strong enough. But why are there people who think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should not be allowed? They say that it is not a normal thing that two people of the same sex have a relationship. They think God created the man and the woman to be toguether and to have children. This is something that homosexual relationships could not do never: having children (if we do not talk about homosexual relationships of women who can do it using the method of the artificial insemination). These people do not understand that a person can love other with independence of his/her sex. In my opinion, this is what happens with homosexual people They simply love.


I think that a person smokes in a public place is very impolite. In my opinion people mustn’t smoke because can be bad for the health. The public institutions don’t recomended smoke because the problems are more. A lot of people don’t comprehension that the ciga give problems us. The students start smoke in the Secondary School. Their friends also buy cigarettes. In my point of view people smoke and smoke. Perhaps nowadays women buy more cigarettes than the men. The government don’t created an institution against smoke in “public places”. It must make it. It is neccessary. The people need more help to do not get cigarettes. More times there are people that they want go out of this routine. The students of the University smoke less because they aren’t younger than the other student people. In the other way people must forget smoking because is a conflict in suppose.


Smoking is at the moment an issue of great importance. a lot of people argue about it. There are different opinions and this might become a problem. Firstly, I think it would be interesting to say that this particular drug is bad for someone’s health. Furthermore, the smoke may affect the people who stay near a smoker. On the other hand, as far as I am concerned, it may be considered like a lack of respect. For example, if I am eating in a restaurant and there is a smoker who is sat near from me, this fact might disturb me. Another important theme is that many people want to smoke in public places. It should be illegal because this action can repercute over the others and it is not healthy. There are more and more pacients with lung cancer and it might be avoidable if the smokers fallow the law which has been established several months ago. In different countries from Spain, the situation in relation with the smokers has really improved thanks to the laws and helps of the government. As well, in other places the people have decided to stop to smoke in order for their health to become better. To resume, if everybody could do it, why we cannot?


We are in the 21st century and people should have a more open mind concerning to everything in general, but specially when we talk about human rights and desires. Nowadays, a lot of people manifest themselves as homosexuals and they are people like you and me, with the same necesities, feelings and problems. So, why are not they going to get married? According to some religions people, homosexual people are mentally ill, trastorned and the fact of getting married among them is a 'terrible sin' because it goes against Biblical beliefs and it is bad seen by God's eyes. For example, the Bible says that women and men were created to populate the earth and procreate, so homosexual couples cannot do that because of obvious circumstances. However, new generations think different about this topic, so people start to be more tolerant with everything related to gays and lesbians. More and more people become homosexual and in a near future, I think we are going to equilibrate the balance among heterosexual and homosexual population. Everybody have ever known a gay or a lesbian and it is totally normal, but not ten years ago. For example, I have a lesbian's cousin and she is supported by her friends and family, but several years ago this could be different. In spite of all these progresses of human's mind, it still exists a very large group of people who do not agree with this theme but they are going to end up accepting it as normal, I hope.


The new anti-smoking law comes to solve a very important problem in public health. The prohibition of smoking in public places is a good idea because it is a benefit for everyone. Passive smokers do no longer have to worry about breathing someone else's smoke which is especially dangerous in some situations, such as when children or pregnant women are involved. Furthermore, it will be good for smokers as well since it will help them to dicrease the number of cigarettes a day. If they are no longer allowed to smoke at their workplace they will progressively reduce the cigarettes they used to smoke. Moreover, if they cannot have so many pauses in order to smoke they will spend more time working and this will result in more benefits for the company. The most controversial part of this law is its application in bars and restaurants. The owners of these bussinesses are given the opportunity to choose whether they want them to be smoking or non-smoking places. It is not a good idea because this way, non-smokers would not free to go to anywhere they want since their health would continue to be damaged. Furthermore, the workers of these places would still suffer the negative consequences of breathing the smoke of the customers. Smokers should be more tolerant and they should obey the law. If they complain against it they are just showing their selfishness and their lack of respect for non-smokers health. They should not feel persecuted because the law is not against them and their freedom but in defence of non-smokers rights and public health. They should consider it as an opportunity to start a healthier life with new habits rather than an attack to their rights.


I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because all people of both sexes have the same rights. Marriage is a union of two people who love each other, independently of the sex. Spanish government has passed this year a new law allowing the marriage between persons of the same sex. Not so many years ago homosexuals are considered to be ill persons, mainly by the Church who considered that this kind of relation is unnatural; and ununderstanding. They think that marriage is the union between a woman and a man who love each other, but nowadays, fortunately people that thinks in this way are lesser and lesser. Nowadays there are a lot of politicians and famous people that are in favour of marriages between persons of the same sex. Spain is one of the big amount of countries, such as Holand that passes a law like this and the amount of countries that join this cause are bigger and bigger. The Church are against this law. They considered that homosexual marriages should not be allowed because are unnatural, and they want the government to avoid this law by doing manifestations constantly. Nowadays there are a lot of associations that supports this idea of the church. I think that there are archaic ideas because all people have the same rights independently of their sexual oritentation. I don't know any reason why this kind of marriages should be banned. It is as if homosexual people want to ban heterosexual marriages. I think that it is absurd because people can do what they want and their sexual orientation should not interphere in their life. Fortunately we are in the XXI century and homosexual people are not persecuted and punished like in ancient times and they can do what they want. It's true that nowadays some people continue to discriminate homosexual people at time of chosing a job. Thanks to the growth of society, mentally speaking, they have the same rights that heterosexual, because the are normal people in spite of the thoughts of the Church and its followers. I am totally in favour of homosexual marriages because I think that all people have the same rights and a person can't determine what other person have to do because we don't have any power in other's decisions. All people have same rights.


From the beginning of this year, a law which allows the marriage of persons of the same sex was passed. Firstly, this law causes certain problems, specially in the religious atmosphere since it is difficult for many people to accept it. But, nowadays, it seems that people are starting to accept it, although with the exception of some institutions such as the Church, which already thinks that the marriage among persons of the same sex is unnatural. Love is a natural right of which each person should enjoy and for this reason any way of considering it should be respected since homosexual people can love in the same way that heterosexual people. So, the question of marriage among these peope should not mean a problem for the rest of society. Some arguments against this issue are the problem of having children or taking care of them because people who disagree with this kind of marriage say that they are not able to take care of them as an heterosexual partner. Today, there is a growth in the number of parents who don't take care of their children as they should and among these partners, there are not any cases for the moment in which the parents are homosexual. So, before banning these people the right of having children, we should stop to think about this question and to analise seriously the real reasons why people disagree with these homosexual marriages, that is, what are their real prejuices.



Nowadays, the choice of entering or not in the University is less important for people finishing Secondary School. Other choices are shown. However, those people who want to become part of the University world have to face an entrance examination. Sometimes, it is not an effective and fair system. People who defend the entrance examination affirm that it is important to show a common knowledge on basic subjects such as History, Grammar or Maths. In this sense, entrance examinations system provides students in general with a solid base of culture, and they are obliged to study those subjects during the last year at Secondary School. Besides, it is not a matter of obliging students to deal with subjects that they don't like, because they leave the chance to choose an 'especialised' like of study: Maths, Biology... or Latin, Art, Philosophy... which will be presented as examns in university entrance examinations. On the other hand, we find defenders of the opposite option who support themselves saying that those common subjects are not linked to future degrees which the student wants to choose. For instance, a person who wants to study Biology is obliged to do an examn on Philosophy or History (as they are compulsory subjects in university entrance examinations). Those subjects are not a basic element on their future degree. Thus, people defending a non-entrance examination system prefer an examination at a different level, this is, an entrance examination for a certain faculty or degree which implies necessary and basic sujects for the future degree of the student. Moreover, it is a matter of fact that the entrance examination mark is not the final mark required but just a minimun part. This mark is linked to the one got at Secondary School, so, it is not as objective as it seems to be. In a European fram, we should adapt and adopt foreign systems which do work and with which people are satisfied. It is not a matter of advantages and disadvantages, it is a matter of reaching the highest level in educational matters to form workers who show competitiveness and who are able to be equals as our European neighbours.


Nowadays, our government considers illegal smoking in public places since the tobacco can be very damaging for our health. I think that this question is obvious for us. Nevertheless, people will not stop smoking although this measure is in force. Instead of prohibiting this habit, government should improve the slogans anti-tobacco which isn’t good at all. For example, when you buy a packet and you see the slogan, you don’t throw it. In my opinion, slogans like “Smoking can kill “ shouldn’t be put in packets but in public places, magazines or in the streets. Other question that I would change could be the prohibition of smoking in restaurants and bars. I think that all this public places should have two parts, one for smokers and the other one for no-smokers, because everybody has the same rights. With regard to the topic of the health, I think that each person knows what they do and it’s clear that the present slogans don’t affect to young people since we live the present and we don’t already think in the future. In conclusion, the government shouldn’t prohibit this habit in public places. In my opinion, persons should establish their own limits since people don’t like that others impose rules in their lifes.


To start with I’ll like to say that I’m not a smoker so, my point of view is going to be clear although I’ll try to express my opinion from the others (smokers) points of view. In one hand I think that the smoke is an action which is allowed in our society in spite of being proved that it’s unhealthy. People start smoking from early ages just because if you do that you think that you are an adult and it gives you independence and make you feel free. Our society leads you to smoke by showing some adverts on TV or in the street. Young people can see adults smoking everywhere so that they think it shouldn’t be a bad thing. On the other hand the Health Department is advising that more and more people are losing their lives because of smoking. They advise not to smoke but they don’t take any important decision in order to make it an illegal action. Everybody can by cigarrettes anywhere and although it’s illegal to buy it by people under eighteen, nobody asks for your identity in order to check your age. I think that it should be illegal to smoke in public places because in this way we will improve our health but I also think that if is allowed to smoke so there should be special closed places where people could smoke. The most important thing is to consider everybody’s rights and to be tolerant with others decisions having always into account that our health is the first thing to consider. I also think that doctors and all the society should help those people who want to give up smoking in order to stop this bad habit. The Health Department should spend more money helping smokers to give up smoking rather to spend such a lot of medicines to improve those illness caused by the effects of smoking. We should take as example other countries were it’s illegal to smoke in public places, they can’t do it and they run a normal life. Even if it’s going to be hard to make it work, people should get use to the idea and finally it could be possible to get it.


It had been proved by several medical researchers that smoking is dangerous both for active and passive smokers. For instance, doctors say that smoking is directly related with lung cancers and heart attacks, two of the most important death causes in Western Countries. And doctors say too that there’s a strong connection between conception problems like infertility or abortion and smoking. And we can continue looking for several more diseases because there’s a long list of them. Smokers justifies themselves saying that such diseases have a lot more to do with some chemical products added to preserve tobacco and the burnt of the paper used to wrap cigarettes than with tobacco itself. But, on the other hand, non-smokers consider that they have the right to ask the government for the prohibition of smoking, because of the dangers of tobacco. Under such perspective, it’s not only a matter of health, but also a matter of education, cleaness and tolerance with non-smokers. So why don’t the State banned tobacco selling? It would be a coherent measure, because tobacco illnesses costs a lot of money to our Public Health System. There’s one very important reason: more than the money the system “waste” in treatments of severe illnesses related with smoking, is the money the system “collects”. Tobacco (and spirits(1)) taxes are very important in the State Budget every year. Some time ago I read some very interesting opinions of a tobacconist that works in the business for twenty five years. And she was raised up selling tobacco (she inherited a shop from her parents). There’s a lot of changes when she began selling tobacco up till now. For instance, she considered that she sold a better tobacco when she began in the business than now, because tobacco has now more and more added substances and because of the –what she calls- “fashionable” light tobacco (I read somewhere that light tobacco has more chemical products added than “normal” tobacco). Obviously, she sells different kinds of tobacco and there’s a strong connection between the best sold tobacco trademarks, publicity and low prices(2). I think that we can’t say that if the Government increases tobacco prices, smokers are going to disappear. People from the U.K. explained to me that the rise of tobacco prices has a lot to do with the change of habits there. I heard that a lot of people in the U.K. that some years ago smoked cigarettes, now rolls their own cigarettes (with tobacco or with mild drugs, cheaper than tobacco). Another story is that there are some british people that earn their living coming to Spain in order to buy tobacco –because here is cheaper- and sell it in Britain. With all this information in mind, I consider that making smoking illegal isn’t the solution of “tobacco” problems. In Spain tobacco has a lot to do with social life: we smoke in pubs, cafes. And the Government campaigns against tobacco (for instance, with “unpleasant” messages at cigarettes boxes) are considered a sort of a joke by many heavy smokers, so I dare say that such campaign has no real and effective results. My own opinion about what smokers have to try is change a bit their habits as tobacco consumers. Perhaps could be useful for them to analyse when and where they used to smoke, in order to control their habit. So, I think that only personal and individual decisions could bring real change. If tobacco is something easy to find you can make up your mind and say if you want to buy a box or not. About tobacco being banned, we can’t forget that humans usually feel tempted by prohibited things (that so-called(3) illegal drugs(4) are a good example of what I try to say). About smoking in public places, I only think that both smokers and non-smokers have to adapt themselves. For me it’s obvious that with children around, pregnant women or people with lung diseases for instance, smokers have to avoid their habit. The other day I watched on television a chapter of “Friends”, that had a funny gag about smoking on your job place. One of the members of the gang was a heavy smoker. And he can’t smoke at his office. So he invented a system. He hid a cigarette in the drawer of his work table. He smoked once. He put the cigarette in the drawer, sprayed some air freshener in the office and something in his mouth for his tobacco bad breath. After two or three times repeating this action because of his addition, he finally made a mistake an put air freshener on his mouth and the product for the breath in the room. So the problem he had in his working place was how to smoke without being discovered, but not how to be a good workers. So perhaps banning tobacco could bring such a situation besides us. That’s why I don’t like the idea. And I’m not a heavy smoker. (1)Another “problematic” substances that in several countries like the States, some specific measures are held to control them and for instance you can’t take alcoholic drinks on the street (2)Low prices that perhaps means a lower quality of the product sold (3)I said so-called because it’s not difficult to find drugs in Spain, if you want to take them (4)Illegal drugs are related with several illneses, like AIDS. About 80% of people in jail are involved in drugs both as consumers or as drug dealers.


I think that the marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because I think it is a matter of love, not a matter of sex. It is also a right for the people, all people should have that option to get married If they want so. Most people think that a marriage is a union between two people of different sexes, man and woman, but it is only a union between two people. If love an respect exist, what is the importance of the sex? I think that most people who think that these marriages shold be banned should think about of love not about of sex, they should be more tolerant. On the other hand it is the question of rights. Appart from love reasons there is a legal reason. All people have the same rights and the fact should not change as far as marriage is concerned. For instance in a question of heritage, It is not important if you spend all your lifetime with your partner because if he or she dies and you are not married you do not receive anything from his or her heritage. From my point of view it is not a just situation because in heterosexual marriages the situation is different. Fortunately the situation is changing in Spain as far as legal terms is concerned but there is still people who thinks that these unions should be banned because they think that they are not real marriages, because it is not natural..., and silly things like these.


The society we live in nowadays is undergoing many changes in its composition and in its values. Many of such changes are not completely accepted by all people, and they are not well seen. This is the case of granting legal marriage and rights to persons of the same sex. It is my contention to defend the idea that homosexual couples must have the same rights as heterosexual ones to get married under the same conditions. One of the most recurrent argument against homosexual marriage is the one affecting religious ideas. Many people justifies their disagreement appealing to religious statements such as the natural conception of marriage as union between a man and a woman, and therefore, denying the possibility of a union between two persons of the same sex. However, in a country such as Spain, declared aconfessional, no religious ideals and conceptions should interfear in legal affairs. On the other hand, a democratic state must grant the same legal rights to any individual independently from their race, sex, social or sexual condition. In this sense, prohibiting homosexual marriage is against the constitutional law itself. It is argued that one of the basic problems that granting homosexual marriages brings, is that related to the adoption of children. According to this argument, children belonging to a homosexual family don't develope in the same way as other children, since they would have to face difficult situations at school with children belonging to heterosexual families. Besides, these children are supossed to need the figure of both a mother and a father. However, it is not the first time that the traditional family changes its structure. Monoparental families have been increasing during the last decades. As a consequence of this, many children have been brought up without the figure of a father or a mother. The other part of this last argument would be that fact that adopted children would be really happy and well treated because they would be much desired by their adoptive parents. Of course, all adoptive parents desire a children to come but homosexual couples have more difficulties, as it would be a more figured out decision. As far as I am concerned, it is a basic necessity for society to admit and cohexist with the different values arising everyday. It is the only way to keep democratic ideas alive.


I think that the controversy created in Spanish society has not really has to do to what it actually means. Spanish drivers are used to do whatever they want when driving, and that is the point that this is the matter that worries them. What this law truly implies is that we drivers must be aware of the danger we are exposed to when we drive and that we must be extremely careful. This matter should not be neither a strage thing nor an unsual behaviour, because it deals with our safety, and that of the other drivers. This behaviour of us drivers should be adopted and learned not from the first time we drive (what in many cases is not a Driving Schools but at home, another feature of our imprudent conduct) but from the first time that we are aware that we are social beings, and we must behave in that way when driving. That system of penalty points that, as usual arrives too late to our country has not been created in order to punish, but in order to prevent more deads. We are so fatalistic that we only mind the fact of being removed our points, but that only happens when we have an unconcious and a passive attitude in our beautiful and powerful cars. But we do not care if points have been removed because we did not wear the safety belt, what is really sad and desperating, because this is an automatic action we should make as soon as we get into the car. I say once again that it is very sad not to wear it because it really saves lifes, and the DGT does not make controls in order to incommodate drivers and just for getting money, but the really do it for our own benefit. Besides, there is the matter of alcohol. Should it be allowed to drive when we have drunk it? My personal answer to this question is no, we should not. Alcohol minimize our abilities and our capacity of perception of reality, what makes us uncapable of driving properly and correctly and, of course, safety. Finally, I must say that I find it a bit unfair with learning drivers, because it is more strict with us than with the other drivers. Although I understand they are more experienced than us, it must also be said that they do not normally respect the law and they are more uncared. I think that those drivers with more than a determinate experience of many years should have to pass periodic exams in order to determine their capacities and abilities and their remembering the law. I think that we must be totally concious of the danger of driving when we do not do it properly. In what referres to me, I only have to pass my driving exam next Monday.


Love is a universal feeling; it is something that everybody knows. The heart sometimes leads people to fall in love with each other, regarless sex. From a biological point of view, this kind of relationship may be understood as unnatural, I mean in the sense of being completely impossible to gave birth a new life. But this fact is no more a problem itself since adoption exists as well as scientific advances, such as fecundation in-vitro, which allows two women or two men becoming parents, as if the "normal" or expected ones. It is perhaps from the religious point of view that people are more reluctant to accept this kind of relationship. There have been always many constrictions in this respect due to the conservative Church... Law has changed a lot in the last years. And so, the marriage of persons of the same sex is gradually losing its "grotesque" connotations. But, things have already to change much more. Since I am heterosexual, I don't really understand why or how persons of the same sex feel so, but I don't judge or condem them. And, why not? If they are in love, they should do it.


I am totally in favour the new driving law because I consider that the idea of losing their licenses would make drivers be more careful when being at the road. It seems that the only way to have them controlled is by means of threatening them wiht the loss of their rights. However, I consider that some penalties are not as hard as they should be. The simple fact of being caught drunk while driving should be enough to lose all the points of the license because this action actually implies a risk both for the driver and for the rest of the citizens. Moreover, I think that drunk drivers who hurt or kill other people should be sent to prison as a punishment for their crimes. This new driving law seems to be effective at least when the amount of accidents is concerned. People seem to be more aware now of the fact that exceeding the speed allowed is dangerous and can have fatal consequences. However, one may wonder if people drive more carefully because they have realized that the car is a dangerous weapon or just to avoid losing points of their licenses and being fined. If the reason was the lattest, it would mean that we have learned nothing, that we do not care about our security or about the others', that we have not discovered yet that our crazy actions can destroy our lives or, even worse, other people's lives. What we should wonder then, if this is the case, is if the education we are receiving is the one we should receive. It seems that we only react when we fear we can lose money or something we really want or need. And this is a direct consequence of the type of materialistic society we have created. We do not care about other people, the question is not if you could have killed another person but the points you are going to lose and the amount of money you will have to pay. Some people even question if the points penalty is too excessive for the action they have comitted, what gives a clear idea of the fact that we do not give to our imprudences at the road the importance we should. By making the law harder we will reduce the amount of accidents even though if it only is by means of a threat. The real success will be when people drive carefully because of their own convinction, not because of their fear to a fine.


The marriage of persons of the same sex should be allowed because every human being should have the same rights, and everybody has the right to be happy. A relationship just concers to the persons involved on it, so if two men or two women love each other, they don't provoke a damage on the others around them, at least they make another couple to split up to get a partner. In my opinion, those persons who don't allow them to get married, that stigmatise them for doing so are people whose lives are boring and without sense, because if you are happy, and you've gat all you need in life to be comfortable, you won't worry wether your neighbour gets married with a man or a women. It has nothing to do with you as long as they don't try to flirt with you or your mate. Many people say that they wouldn't like to see a family of gays leading the same life they do because it is unnatural and offensive and many of them have fear that if their children saw that situation they could be badly influenced and become gay aswell. And that's exactly the same thing which they argue about gays and lesbians adopting children; they think that their children would be gays aswell. But in my opinion you are born with your sexuality, there's no influence on how you fell or love. These people will probably have been born in a family of heterosexual people and they are gays. It is not a matter of bringing up but of nature. They say, aswell, that those children will be isolated by the others because their parents aer not the "normal type", but those who say such a thing, should worry about bringing up their children and educate them to love and respect the others, never to insult or discriminate the neighbour. If children are that bad is because their parents are exactly the same way they are. Adults must teach children to treat the gays as the thing they are: human beings. If we all respect each other, we all can be happy.


I think it should be allowed, at least civil marriages. First of all, because it must be a right the fact of free election of your partner. The Government must give the same economic help to these couples that they give to heterosexual couples, basically because they are paying their taxes like every couple. I think also that it is time to stop this kind of prosecution; we live in the 21st century, a time where we are always speaking about 'human rights', a time where we should not stigmatise any human being. It is also time to say 'enough' to the Catholic Church. It is an undeniable fact that they need to modernise their institution and begin to think which is the option they are going to choose: on the one hand, expell there Catholic homosexuals from Christianity as they have been doing until today or on the other hand, let them get married and do not be a hypocrite institution. I even think that homosexual couples should have the possibility of adopting children. One of the reasons is that every child should have home, independently of the sex choice of their parents. In this respect, the Catholic Church should stop its message of encouraging couples to have their own children and change it by another one recommending couples to take a poor child. In conclusion, I think that both HOMOSEXUAL MARRIAGES and ADOPTION BY HOMOSEXUAL COUPLES should be allowed; not only that, if these rights were forbidden, we, the heterosexuals, will have the obligation of taking the streets and be side by side with homosexuals. If we allow the negation of rights to anyone, we can be the next to suffer it.


As we know, the marriage of persons of the same sex has always been a controversial topic in our society. In fact, a national debate was opened in our country, when the Spanish Government decided to pass a law to allow homosexual people to marry. Several sectors of diferent social protected and showed their disagreement about this point. They considered the marriage of persons of the same sex as something unnatural, mainly because this new right was supposed to attempt to the estructure and values of the traditional family. As we have mentioned before the law was really controversial at the time: Nowadays, things seem to be bit different and people seem to be more tolerant concerning this point. However, there are some groups who disagree about this idea. To my mind, this situation is absolutely anormal. First of all, we have to consider that the homosexual people should have the same rights as heterosexual people. According to the basic laws, all citizens are equal and discrimination because of race or any other question is totally stupid. Unfortunately, discrimination exist in our society, mainly because of our ignorance and the lack of respect between individuals that we contribute to create in some cases. In fact, people seem to be perfectly aware of the problem but sometimes we act in a different way. Several points dealing with the homosexual marriage have been really controversial. Most of people consider that homosexuals are not prepared to "have" children, that is, they consider that this couples should not have the right to adopt children. It is commonly said that they are not suitable so children are going to suffer more than with heterosexual parents. The basis pilars of the traditional family are supposed to be damaged because of the new laws and the Church has manifested its ideas in several ocasions. Personally, I think that homosexuals and heterosexuals should have the same rights as citizens in our country. The idea that a child is going to suffer because of their parents sexual condition is absolutely absurd. People should try to be more open and respect all option.