
The bigger a city becomes, the bigger the problems that we can find in it. Madrid has experienced a large growth in the past years both in economy and population, because of that, the number of cars and similar types of transport has also increased .Spain's capital is, as a matter of fact, turning into one of Europe's most consistent and important cities. In the past, cities as London, Roma or Paris , to name some,  had much greater importance in the continent.

Because of that, the Spanish government is spending large amounts of money in order  that Madrid can obtain infrastructures at the same level to compete with other important cities. As a result, many of the new constructions that are taking place in our city are making difficult both private and public transport. We can see how public transports are often made to change their itineraries because of the restrictions made for the new buildings, roads etc. Traffic jams are sort of a common thing in the city; normally we find them when people go to work or when they are returning from it. Jams are also found near the middle of the Madrid, this is because it is a place in which constructions and public commercial places co-exist.

One of the problems that we can also find as a result of the immense amount of traffic in the city is pollution. If we go out of the city and look at its landscape we probably can't see very well but the silhouette of the buildings alone. In order to help the environment , Madrid has to restrict the use of transport and make more green places so that pollution can be healed or  eradicated.

After the failure of 'Europe's day without cars` , we saw that big cities such as Madrid are not prepared to let aside this vehicles.
The city council suggested different methods in order to palliate the problems given because of the conflictive traffic. One of the methods that I found quite interesting was the 'Teleparking`, it negotiates the interchange or reciprocation of garage places between people of the city. The user gives their name, address, phone number so that if any problem occurs they can contact them. They must also provide information such as how much time they are going to have the car in that place and the reason if it is suitable.

This solution was introduced in a small scale in Madrid but most people ignored it. People still fight to get a place in which they can put their cars.

Another problem is that people tend to put their cars in places such as the second parking line which makes difficult to other vehicles to pass through the street for example. The solution that was given by a local company was to put some stickers in this cars .In the sticker we can read 'If my car makes any inconvenience or disturbance call to this free phone number` so that the user of the car can be called in order to remove their car as quickly as possible .










From my personal point of view , people really don't bother or don't even try to apply this suggestions given, they prefer to try it by their own, causing much more damage. I think that there are too much cars in the city and not enough parking slots for everyone , the city council must do something to help , either by doing restrictions or by doing more parking places .

Madrid is a wonderful city that probably has as its main problem the large amount of constructions that are taking place at the time being. Given this, people must think of ways to make the city much more enjoyable, quieter and healthier. A city of which people will be proud to be in, the capital of Spain.


Over the last 40 years, the legal status of marijuana has been debated vigorously. Proponents of policies that would permit individual possession of small amounts of marijuana argue that it is a safe drug and that criminal sanctions against personal use and possession represent at worst excessively harsh and at best unnecessary penalties. On the other hand, it appears that smoked marijuana damages the brain, heart, lungs, and immune system. It impairs learning and interferes with memory, perception, and judgment. There are different types of views concerning this topic, some of them which are completely opposite.

A recent study by the British Medical Association indicates that marijuana can relieve certain types of pain, nausea, vomiting and other symptoms caused by such illnesses as multiple sclerosis. Doctor Joycelyn Elders states that clearly shows that marijuana has been accepted as capable of relieving the distress of great numbers of very ill people with safety under medical supervision. In a survey carried out last year in Europe, over 64 % of the interviewed considered the legalisation of marijuana as a good thing for society. One of the main arguments in favour is that Police and court resources would be freed up for more serious crimes because drug disputes would be reduced. It is believed that it could also be a source of additional tax revenues and the general feeling among the economist is that it could be a good addition for the market.

There are also many people who think completely opposite as the statements above. The latest poll figures show that more than half the adult population thinks that the legalisation of marijuana will be harmful for their children. It is apparently true that marijuana is often used as a stepping-stone drug, leading to heroin, cocaine, or other harder drugs. According to the California Narcotics Officers Association, marijuana is an unstable mixture of over 400 chemicals including many toxic psychoactive chemicals which are largely unstudied and appear in uncontrolled strengths. Some people would argue that the legalization would increase the chances of the drug falling into the hands of kids. Some researchers say that physical damage would be done to users that abuse the drug.
The vast majority of the people interviewed quoted that they had to know the case in order to give a certain judgement of the legalization. It is widely accepted that marijuana can help certain types of diseases or minor injuries but it's also known as a stepping-stone drug. The general feeling among the experts indicates that marijuana will always have someone in favour or against. Young people don't want to over praise in this topic, even though marijuana is a known substance in their live. They seem to think that legalization would bring good and bad things, and they are not capable to choose from.

It seems reasonable to consider that some marijuana properties are beneficial for health and can relieve pain, but it has also to be taken into account that the exposure to this type of drug might be a link to other drugs such as cocaine or heroin. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. It might start as a remedy but could become an addictiveness, and turn up to be harmful for the human being. It could be considered as a stepping-stone drug, but studies indicate that if the legalization takes place, the quality and safety of drugs could be regulated and make them even less addictive. Some of the evidence shows that the people who use marijuana as a substance to heal their injuries become unstable and can be addicted to other drugs rather easily.
Although there are many different opinions on this particular topic, the general feeling is that the legalization of marijuana would bring major changes in everyone's lives; the economy would be affected greatly as a new item would be added to the market. People will always argue on this topic, because some consider this substance as a remedy for their diseases and the other part thinks of it as a harmful drug that could eventually become an addiction. The debate is settled.


