
Education has become one of the most important pillars in Spain and concerns politicians and the most of the people in our country. In Spain the educational system is divided on four parts depending on the age: "Infantil", "Primaria", "Secundaria" and "Bachillerato"; the first three are compulsory until sixteen years old then the student can start to work or follow studying. The problem is some social sectors are complaining because they think that education given until that age is not enough to face up a job. This situation has been face up in England where the studies will be prolonged to 18 years old. In this essay I intend to argue, in my view, obligatory education should be up to 18 years and some of the reasons why I think it should.

Firstly, I think that studying compulsory till 18 years should increase the guarantees of a better-paid job. Studying till age of majority (either Bachillerato or FP) for two years before searching a job is, personally speaking, a good way to fight against precarious employment because the student have more knowledge and experience to work. However, some people would think that starting working at 16 would give economic independence, although employers could take advantage to pay them less and it would be lower. For example, a boy who started to work at sixteen in a carpenter's workshop without any experience would be paid less than other who has been having practices for two years in FP.

Secondly, obligatory education till 18 years seems to me a good way to face the problem of the young people who neither are in the school or university nor are working or doing training courses. Those people are a burden on their families because the parents are who will have to support them economicly in the close future due they do not have any job. So, they will have to make any course in a compulsory way. However, I know there are a lot of people who say that if a student quit school when she/he is 16 and she/he starts to work, she/he will get money to help its family earlier. But, it appears to me that she/he will have money to be used as a help but will not earn enough money to afford an own house or its own necessities; so, if she/he continues studying, she/he will get more practice and studies and will be able to manage better jobs.

Finally, some people believe that making the education obligatory reduces the students' freedom because it does not let them choose by themselves. But I believe that people at those ages do not know what they want exactly or what it's best for them. Sixteen years old most of the times is not enough to make a good choice and because of that there are a lot of people who do courses like CCC to prepare to university or get school-leaving certificate owed companies ask for them.

In conclusion, in this essay I have shown several reasons why I believe obligatory education should be prolonged till eighteen years old such as a way to end with precarious employment, with a young sector that might become a social problem and a foresight to not regret in the future the lack of education. Considering these points, I feel that the education given to sixteen year students is not enough to face up the real world and a real job; so, I do believe that the education must be improved either making obligatory the education till eighteen years old or improving the education until sixteen years old. 

Education in Spain has changed a lot in the last years. Some decades ago, the number of uneducated people rose higher up than it does nowadays. One of the reasons for this, is that now, more people have access to an education, but on top of all stands the fact that education is obligatory since 1931. Schools' assistance is higher every day (always with some exceptions, which often include rather hard conditions on which I will not comment in this essay, and as education gains importance, a new debate rises: Should education be compulsory up to 18 years? I personally think that this could be a rather positive change, as I will argue in this essay.
To begin with, it is a fact that most of the young people find it important to think carefully about what they really want to do with their future. At the age of 16, few are the teenagers who have a clear view of what they want their work to be like, or even I which field they would like to work in (law, medicine, teaching, etc.). If the age was risen up to 18, those teenagers who leave school at 16 would have the opportunity to give a better thought the possibility of going to university. We have to think too, about the fact that those last two years in school are the ones which help you decide what you will do after finishing your education. Firstly, you get to choose between the subjects you want to take, so if a student is really interested in science, he won't be forced into taking economics, for example. On  the other hand, it could be argued that there are some people who really want to leave school at such a prompt age as 16 is, because they don't want to keep studying and would rather prefer to start working. This might be true, but I firmly support the fact that one isn't mature enough at the age of 16 to make a decision that will definitely affect the rest of his life.
Also, the fact that you finish your Bachillerato gives you a better preparation for your life. Even if you finish these last two years and decide not to study anymore, your cultural level will be much above someone's who dropped out of school at 16; plus, it will be easier to study again in the future if you decide to do so. This happens because the education received a t the ages of 17 and 18 is more useful in life than the one received before. As it is more specific, it allows you to have a certain level of knowledge on certain subjects, such as physics, maths or chemistry. It could be said that  this isn't really useful if you aren't planning on studying any further, but  these education is not only useful for your posterior professional life, but for your social life too. The things you study about in Bachillerato, are very often up to date, and very commonly appear in conversations (about history, or economics, for example).
Furthermore, I'd like to emphasize the fact that what we are all really looking for in our life is happiness. This happiness is the result of fulfilling our expectations for life: our friends, family, working life, etc. Yes, our work will be a great part of our life at some point, and it always will be better if we dedicate our lives to something we really like doing. It might seem, at an early age, that we will be happy leaving school early, and studying alter (at the most) for one year in order to work as a, lets say, plumber. Some people might think that this is not bad at all, because they see a plumber as a man who earns quite a lot of money, but from my point of view, money isn't everything. This person might be regretting having left school so early, he might wonder for the rest of his life what would have happened if he had stayed, if he had had the same options as someone who had just finished school and is ready to enter university.
Now, as we have seen, education is only obligatory up to 16 years. If this was changed up to 18, it would mean only two more years of school education. Besides all the positive academic and professional reasons given above, in my opinion, the school years are a great experience for each individual to live, especially the last ones; so, I think few are the reasons which could counter this possible change.
