
Abortion is a much discussed issue nowadays. Not every country accepts abortion, so there will be different points of view from each other's institutions. For instance, Abortion is legal in England, Scotland and Wales since the Abortion act passed in 1967, however it remains illegal in Northern Ireland, in Argentina it is strictly limited by law... in most cases it depends on the importance they give to aspects like the protection of the mother's life, her physical or mental health, if she suffered a rape or if the baby comes with serious problems. This essay will argue about the different points of view that some institutions have related to abortion.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of abortion. A Colombian journalist pointed out that making abortion a crime doesn't save babies, it kills women. She adds that the group of cellules that compose a baby doesn't have any feeling because it hasn't got any organs or human attributes either and they might be divided in other thousand of human beings. She disagrees with those who call a foetus: "little human being", because if that group of cellules is called like this, other cellules of our body could be in the same situation and she compares the cellules of a foetus with the particles of our skin in the dust that we throw to the litter. Another argument in favour is said by a group of feminist women who said: "abortion is one of the most fundamental right for women". They see abortion as a way of freedom for women and most modern feminists want an easier access to abortion. These points of view aren't concerned about some of the psychological problems that abortion causes in some women, and a foetus can't be threatened like the dust of the floor of our house, although it isn't wanted. 

On the other hand, it could be also argued some negative arguments about abortion. Church has been an obstacle in the development of abortion during ages. Religious people support their arguments by defending their fifth commandment "You won't kill", because the foetus is an innocent victim and it is killed by those person who must save its life. As a result, abortion is for them a serious sin against the value of human life. Those who abort deserve excommunication. The old contains of these arguments explain that only very religious people support them. It is difficult to support these arguments living in a modern society were women haven't got the necessity of suffering a fault of that kind, when they can solve this problem by abortion. Nowadays people have many problems to stop to consider what church says and here Church should stop to know how society thinks, obviously because times have changed.

However, mid points about abortion exist and they must be commented. For instance, religious women have in mind what god sentences and this essay mentions in the previous paragraph, but they abort when they life can't be right with a baby, caused by future problems for the mother, rape, or a bad illness for the baby. This shows that moral prohibition hasn't any effect over the decision of abortion when the pregnancy results impossible for the woman. Another midpoint about abortion is supported by ethic, it states that to make laws about abortion it must be considered the variety of problems that could have the society and it isn't fair to believe in extreme opinions. Some of the evidence shows that midpoints are the wealthiest points of view because they consider both sides, against and in favour, and both must be analysed to have a reasonable answer to how to do with the issue of abortion.

To conclude, abortion is seen in different ways by different parts of society, and seems to be complicated to state the truth about it. Some are in favour, other are against and some midpoints exist too. Midpoints should be the ones to consider when thinking about abortion and extreme positions could change their mind because the ones who are in favour don't think about the mental damages of the mother, and in other hand, the against ones should be more open-minded.

 



One of the main problems in big cities like Madrid is traffic. It causes contamination, and creates a lot of elements that damage the atmosphere and contribute to the climatic change that will soon have very bad consequences. Contamination also has very bad effects on people's health: almost every of the European cities residents (a 97%) are exposed to atmosphere contamination levels that transcend the quality objectives fixed BY the European Union for particles, for ozone at the level of the floor (44%) and for the NO2 (14%)87. Moreover citizens are exposed to noise levels over the 55 dB recommended BY the Mundial health organisation. This provokes big discomforts and has a negative effect in sleep and life quality. In this essay I'm going to give some solutions that I personally think can reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

To begin with, if public transport, such as the subway and trains, were improved, traffic will be reduced. In my opinion Governments should make improvements in this kind of transport, like making more bus stops and train or subway stations, like making more frequent trains, like making them faster or even like making them bigger, and this way, people would use public transport much more. A lot of people might argue that taking their cars is faster and better, and that public transport in Madrid sometimes has delays and people don't want to be late for work, or to be waiting at the station for very long. However I disagree with this because there's always a lot of traffic and you can be stopped because you can't go on because of other cars for a lot of time, and in those cases people tend to get nervous, so is neither faster nor better.  

I also think that this solution could be complemented with this one: Making more paths and pedestrian ways, and also for bicycles, so that people can use them instead of driving their cars. There are a lot of people that don't live very far from their works, or that take the car for going everywhere, even if it's near. If there where more of this paths for pedestrians and bicycles, and those where improved, people would use them, and it's a healthier and a more enjoyable way of getting to places near where you are. However some people feel that taking their cars is more comfortable and that they won't waste their time taking their bicycles or going by foot. Even though I would argue that walking or riding a bike is a much healthier way of going to places than sitting in a car and creating pollution.

To finish I would say that another solution that could solve traffic problems in Madrid is to put more trolls in roads and highways, or to make them more expensive. Thereby people would choose another method to go where they want to go, for not to pay when they get to the troll and traffic will be reduced, and therefore there will be less contamination and health problems. It could be argued and a lot of people may think that the fact that he or she is the only one that doesn't use his or her car won't reduce contamination, and that there are a lot of other things that cause contamination. I would say that I strongly believe that cars are one of the main reasons of pollution nowadays, and that even if only one person doesn't use always a car, the contamination will be reduced, and there will be more people like he or she each time.
 
In conclusion there are a lot of things that we can do to reduce traffic problems in Madrid. As I have shown, I think that the better and most effective ones are making a better public transport, making paths for pedestrians and bicycles and putting more trolls in the roads. Considering on this points, I think we all should try to reduce traffic, because it causes really serious problems that besides will have terrible consequences to our health and planet.




                                                                                    
                                                                                 
