

There are a lot of different opinions about if abortion is something good to do or bad to do. Abortion is the intentioned interruption of a pregnancy, and there are some people that have wanted to abort, in one moment or another of their lives, because of some different reasons, like for example girls that have been violated, or women that are pregnant but they didn't want to have a baby. There are some people that think that abortion should be legal, and there are some others that don't think so. In this essay we are going to see different opinions about it.

One of the groups that definitely think that abortion is wrong and that it should be illegal is the Catholic Church. Their thoughts and believes are that abortion is murder and that you are killing somebody if you practise it. They say that at the very first day of pregnancy, the cell inside the woman's body is already a new life, a new human being, and that's why they think that if you abort, that means that you are killing your children. They also feel that it goes against what's natural, and against the god's law. It's written in the Bible, it's holly scriptures, so that's why they believe so. There are loads of catholic people in all over the world, so most of them believe what church says.

Other people may think that abortion shouldn't be illegal, but very controlled. They are against it, but they accept it in some specific cases, and with medical supervision, not for example in illegal clinics. They believe that the reason for an abortion must be very justified, and as it's been said before, controlled. For example, if a woman wants to abort, she would need to say why and demonstrate that what she says is true, and then a medical committee would decide if her reasons are enough or not. They feel that all the valid and not valid reasons must be previously decided by referendum, because if not there will be a lot of problems when deciding and when accepting what's been said by the committee.

There are also a lot of people that think that abortion should be legal and they're totally in favour of it. They think that there are mothers the ones who have to decide whether if they want to have the baby or not, and that when the baby isn't born yet he hasn't got life, so it wouldn't be a murder. They also feel that is better to abort than to have a baby that you don't want to have, because a lot of children can be badly treated because of that. Moreover, there are some babies that have mental handicaps or some of this type of problems and may happen that their parents can't take care of them (because they don't have time or enough money), and there are also women that accidentally get pregnant and that don't have enough means for bring up their baby, so they should have the right to abort.

In conclusion, there are a lot of different points of view about if abortion is right or wrong. As we've seen in this essay Catholic Church is totally against it because they think that is a murder and that is not natural; other people have a not that much radical opinion about abortion and they think that it's debatable, depending on the circumstances; and another people do really think that abortion should be legal and that is a good think to do if you don't want to have that baby or if you don't have enough means to do that. One possible solution to these different opinions could be to make a referendum in each different part of the world, and approve by law what most of the population in one determinate area believes about abortion.

 
Nowadays education is one of the most important issues that are being dealt with in Spain. With only 30 years of democracy, the Spanish educational system has been changed six times. In 1990 Spain settled the obligatory education up to 16 years. Recently, there have been proposals of a new change where the main point has to do with the age children are allowed to leave school, suggesting it should be when students turn 18 years old. These proposals have created some controversy and though there are some interesting arguments against extending obligatory education two years in this essay I will try to explain why I consider this change is beneficial for the Spanish society and, therefore, should be made.

First of all, we are not considered adults until we turn 18 and, therefore, we are not legally responsible of our actions and really entitled to all rights and duties as citizens before becoming adults by law. I believe that until someone turns 18 he should be studying and training himself for whatever he decides to do once he is of age. Some people might argue that you can already start working when you are 16 so there is no need to keep studying. However, the jobs that under aged can apply for are very limited and soon they will find themselves in the need of being of age to find a better job. When they finally turn 18 they will realise that they are at a clear disadvantage to people their age that have continued their studies.

The problem of insufficient education leads us to another problem that could be solved with two extra years of study: the difficulties some unprepared people might find once they are of age to get a good job. There are people who maintain that some families need their children's help to subsist. Nonetheless, though it may be a valid argument, it is necessary to remark that there are full wage scholarships that would allow students to contribute to the families sustain and prevent them from leaving their studies. This is a very important point because it would protect the democratic principle of equal opportunities. 

Last, it has been argued that there is no use in forcing teenagers to keep studying when they do not want to because it is a waste of time and public money. This lack of motivation would also damage students that do want to continue their studies. Nonetheless, I believe that education is not only a right but also a duty. Society pays for our education and so, as citizens, we have to reward it by being useful. The perfect way of doing so is by studying and increasing our knowledge. This way, we will also have access to better jobs and strengthen the workers' rights. Though the students' lack of motivation is a problem, this problem must be solved from the educational institution itself and it is no excuse to not to give back what society expects from us.

In conclusion, this essay has presented what may be considered as the most relevant arguments in favour of expanding obligatory education up to 18 years. First, we do not have full access to labour market until we are 18 years old. Second, by increasing our knowledge we are gaining more chances of getting a better job and improving the general situation of workers' rights and third, we are compelled to improve our education to serve society. Having considered this arguments I believe that obligatory education must be extended up to 18 years and that this change will be very positive for our society both in cultural and economic aspects. 

