Abortion has been a source of considerable debate and controversy over the past years. Pro-life activists, people who are radically opposed to any form of abortion, and pro-choice supporters who believe the women should be in complete control of their pregnancy and, therefore, free to choose whether to continue with the gestation or to interrupt it present two views that may be considered diametrically opposed though there is a large range of positions between both. Recently, the argument has been revived in Spain due to the uncovering of  illegal abortive centres in Barcelona and Madrid. This essay will discuss some of the different views concerning induced abortion.
Pro-life activists believe that abortion should be allowed under no circumstances because they consider life should be valued from the very moment of fertilization. Foetuses must be then considered living human beings and, consequently, entitled to the Human Rights where the main right is the "right to life, security and liberty of person".  So then abortion is regarded as morally wrong and even as a way of murder. This position might seem too radical because they consider "person" not only a foetus but also "potential person" ovum and sperm. Some people might also find it hard to approve of a movement that tries to impose their own beliefs on others. By forbidding abortion you are forcing women to carry on with their pregnancy whereas the legalisation of abortion will not force anyone to abort if they do not wish to. 
On the other hand, the pro-choice movement alleges that women must have access to safe and legal abortion if they do not want to give birth to a child. This way the right of choosing whether to have or not children is recognized but, it would also solve problems involving illegal abortions which mostly have to do with the women's health since a high percentage of these irregular procedures end with the death of the woman. By this standards the Human Rights are not given until the moment of birth, before this, the foetus is just "another part" of the woman's body and so she must be the one to decide what she deems appropriate. This position is very extreme because the foetus can be independent and therefore live "out" of the mother from the sixth month of gestation
In spite of these extremisms there are some that believe that there some allowance should be made. Though not completely in favour of abortion on demand, they do not think that abortion should be prohibited. This position sustains that there are a list of different circumstances that must be taken in consideration before deciding whether the abortion can be carried out. Usually, by this view, legal abortion could be performed in case the pregnancy may mean serious danger for the mother's or the child's lives, rape or foetal defects. They also believe that a time limit for abortions should be established. This is proposed because they consider the foetus a living being when it would be able to live more or less independent of the mother (this would be the case of premature babies). This is the most open-minded position as it recognizes the rights of both the foetus and the woman though the mother's right to life prevails over the foetus in case of death peril. 
 In conclusion, we have seen some of the many arguments used for condemning or defending abortion. First, some regarding foetus as a living human being and so entitled with the Human Rights from the start of the process of fertilization. Second, the women's right to make freely the choices that concern their own body. Finally, a restricted legalization that allows abortion only in some specific cases. Probably the view that appears most convincing is this last one since it can be considered as a midpoint between the other two and might prevent some of the problems that would ensue from a complete prohibition of abortion.


Population keeps growing in Madrid as a result of the immigrants coming to the capital of Spain. This continuous arrival of immigrants, being either foreign or national, means a lot of problems in the city regarding health, employment, education and of course, traffic. Although traffic seems to be a secondary problem among the rest, it is a serious issue that affects Madrid daily, increasing not only production costs due to delays but pollution and population unhappiness. That is why in this essay I'm going to discuss what possible solutions I think there are to reduce the traffic problems that are collapsing Madrid in a daily basis. 

The first solution I will propose is to limit the traffic of private vehicles in the smallest streets at Madrid's centre. In my opinion, traffic jams at the centre of big cities are caused by small streets with enormous amounts of cars. As the centre of Madrid is all configured by this kind of small streets, I feel that if they are restricted to pedestrians and public transport, the centre will be released of a big amount of cars. This limit of private vehicles may be a high unpopular measure if it is based on taxing, but I believe that an hour-regulated system in where rush hours were forbidden for private road traffic will be enough to improve Madrid's situation.
 
Next, I believe that Madrid Community's Government should spend a lot more money into the underground and bus nets, which are essential to reduce traffic in the Community as a whole.  Public transport is often overcrowded at rush hour and it does not reach to all of the Community; however, I feel that if it's improved with extended timetables and more trains and buses, a lot of people will resort to using the public transport due to its multiple advantages: It is quick, comfortable and it does not require a parking.  Furthermore, I'm sure this measure would be popular because as public transport uses renewable energies to work, it would help to take care of the planet. 
   
Another solution would be encouraging the use of bicycles in the city, as other countries are already doing all across Europe. In cities like Wien, Amsterdam or even Barcelona there is a service of public bicycles that consists of low cost renting of bikes at bicycle stops. Usually, these stops also have room for a bunch of private bikes, which can be parked there as well. Although in my opinion this will help reduce not only traffic but contamination as well, it is true that it will need a strong initial inversion and time for restructuring the city to add bike lanes for the cyclists to travel safely. However, I think this solution is fairly economical and healthier for short distances at the centre of the city. 

As for the traffic problems at the outskirts' highways, I believe that one possible solution would be building new roads around Madrid with better access, which would communicate all the dormitory towns among themselves and the rest of the city. Some people may argue that this is not an easy solution, because the costs of building a highway of this size are huge and it needs t be financed somehow; if the money comes from the Community of Madrid or the central Government, it would mean that it will come from all taxpayers. However, in my opinion what the Spanish's Government should do is build more payment highways. It is true that everybody must pay to use them but I strongly feel that if the payment is not excessive a great deal of people would use them to avoid massive traffic jams.  

To sum up, there are some solutions that from my point of view can help improving the problem of heavy traffic in Madrid. Regulating private vehicles and encouraging the use of public transport or bikes would help to relieve the traffic jams in the centre of the city and as for the outskirts; the building of new private roads around Madrid will help clearing the entrances and exits of the city. Anyway I do not think that solving the problem of traffic in a city as big as Madrid is an easy task, but I feel that it needs to be worked out if Madrid's population wants to be happier and healthier, and on schedule.  

