     
      Ever since the history of mankind began, man has been practising different forms of 
worship and piety. There was no nation on earth unattached to a religion and performing its rites 
in different ways and it involves concrete moral codes. These norms must be completed by the 
believers of this religion and sometimes they are not accepted by the whole of society. 
Considering these facts and the historical evidences, we realize that the existence of religion and 
worship in the course of man's history is clear proof that religion is not a passing phenomenon. 
A present-day situation concerning this topic is the one that we live in Spain that take away the 
Christian church authority. Nowadays, Spain is considered a secular state, so everyone is 
supposed to be free of choosing its religion. However, the real situation is rather different 
because for instance, at schools, there is only one subject aimed to Christian religion specifically 
and which is compulsory for student's grades and also a part of the national income goes to the 
Christian church. This educational system is tried to be changed by the socialist government 
which pretends to remove the religion subject and consequently to reduce aids to Christian 
religion. In this essay, I intend to analyze the different viewpoints that some people have 
concerning this topic and also I willy try to provide some possible solutions.
      To begin with, there are some people who feels that religion is a fundamental key to 
construct a good society. They also believe that <Q> <R>. Not only these people think that 
religion is essential in schools but also they argue that the Word of God is necessary in order to 
have personal success. President George Washington stated: <Q> <R>. After pointing out this point of view, we must notice that these prople consider 
their religion as the basis of their lives. Furthermore, they believe that the reason for the 
increasing number of incidents at school is funded in contemporary pupils' lives without a God 
image. It is true that violence is increasing at schools very dramatically but I think that the 
accusing argument of not having religious influence is quite weak and it does not have to do with 
nowadays reality. Firstly, some decades ago, education was ruled by a very strict discipline in 
which, primarily religious schools, applied physical and psychological punishment to the 
students that did not obbey certain compulsory norms such as praying, knowing the Bible, etc. 
So, I feel, that it is not a matter of education without religion because children only do what they 
see in their background. Children perception of the world is influenced by a lot of factors such as 
their country, their neighbourhood, the TV programmes they watch or even their own character. I 
feel that the lack of religion is only an option of the educational system and that violence at 
school could be fought off by taking some measures like penalizing certain harmful behaviours 
and not by introducing a religion subject. Then, this viewpoint also focused religion as the key of 
a succesful life in different fields. It was mentioned before by an American politician that God 
means to knows our roots and the way to reach moral, spiritual and financial state. I feel that this 
argument is comparing faith with politics and it appears to me that both terms are not very 
similar because it connects the idea of deep devotion to God with the self-success as a reward. I 
would like to  comment on this that we have been always taught that religion has, as its base, to 
pray in order to feel protected spiritually not as a material act.
      Another point of view concerning the need of religion is the one from the people who 
sees religion as a swindle and as a backwardness. <Q> <R>. Along the 
history, it has been demonstrated, with the past of time, that the majority of religions had as their 
purpose to control human mind. In addition, they are pretty exhaustive in the sense that religions 
often create a clear line among good and bad acts. The consequences of these divisions are that 
believers are supposed to follow these rules, to behave properly, so they are in a kind of constant 
threaten in their religion. On the contrary, I am not of the opinion which claims that only weak 
people believe in religion because they can also have several interpretations depending on the 
individuals'mind. I also agree with this opinion in the way that human beings always seem to 
have the necessity of believing in something transcendental, a piety, instinct rooted. For this fact, 
I feel that human should believe more in himself, phisically and in his mental abilities such as 
creativity.
      Finally, there are some people who believe that religion is a free choice and that every 
individual must be respected in their inner beliefs too. According to Jennifer Gable's opinion, 
<Q> <R>. It seems a quite logical argument in the sense that these people 
defend the idea of being free to choose religion subject to study because they see schools as a 
public entity in which every student; Christian, Buddist, Muslim, etc, must attend to learn Maths, 
Languages,...but not religion. Religion is seen, for them, as an external matter that have to be 
practised at their correspondent religious places; churches, mosques... A personal choice not to 
be taught at public schools. I find some weaknesses in this argument such as the radical 
elimination of religion theme. I consider that religion should not be evaluated as a compulsory 
subject but I believe that students should learn more about the different religions around the 
world in order to have a better knowledge and to create a good coexistence between different 
cultures. 
      	To conclude, we have seen some contemporary points of view about the religion 
issue. First of all, there are people that establish the word of God as the basis of society and even 
of themselves. Secondly, we have seen the other extreme; atheism in which believing in God 
nowadays means ignorance. On balance, there are some people who respect all religions but they 
do not allow its teaching at schools. On the basis of this, I would like to add a possible 
recommendation to this controversial topic which is rooted in the respect to everyone. It would 
be a good idea to avoid ideologic radicalisms that would harm coexistence around the world. 
Leaving apart if we believe in God or not, we must assume that religion issue has still much 
importance in our present-day society.
        
        
        
        
        
        

        
        
        
 
 
 
 


4



If I were to go out into the street and ask any person to name a war criminal, every 
single one of them could give me a name. Nowadays and specially thanks to the high 
speed information world in which we live, wars are covered 24 hours a day, having the 
recent example of the invasion of Iraq in 2003. From day one of a conflict, even if we 
didn't know anything about the countries involved, both daily newspapers & 
audiovisual Medias will fill us in with everything we need to know. Especially of who 
are the "good guys" and who are the "bad guys". 
In this essay I intend to look at those so called "good guys", and demonstrate that the 
title of war criminal should be broaden in my opinion,  to many people who have been 
looked at many times even as heroes.  

History is full of famous wars that have famous battles and of course, famous people 
involved. And some of these people are considered either heroes or villains. This has 
always been like this, and I have a feeling that it will probably stay likewise, because 
people seem to need them, either to love or to hate.
If we were to look at any country's history we would see pages upon pages of illustrated 
figures of their time, such as, taking an example from the United Kingdom's recent 
history, Winston Churchill, who was voted the "Best Briton" by a television poll in the 
year 2004. Could there be anything bad to say about Churchill? 
He is a sacred figure in the English culture and for the English nation because of all he 
did for us in the II World War, and his place as one of the so called heroes is very 
difficult to argue. Of course we could say that maybe he wasn't a particularly good 
father, or even that he used to kick the horses as a child in his family estate (as quoted 
from George Orwell on Winston Churchill), but this would mean falling into 
exaggeration. I personally dislike Churchill, because to me he was nothing more than a 
loud mouthed ex-radical, recycled conservative imperialist, but I would never dare say a 
falsehood against him because without a shadow of a doubt, he was a great man. 
Of course this is only an example of someone who is considered a hero, or at least an 
admirable figure of the 20th century to whom very fey people hold any grudge. 

On the flip side of History we have other characters that are considered pure evil. 
An example of this would be a famous character of the early beginnings of the United 
Kingdom, Oliver Cromwell. I had a teacher in high school when I was about 15 that had 
a very curious catch-phrase. She seemed to have had a few problems in her time whilst 
visiting England, and came back rather cheesed off with the English people. She used to 
say to us: "If at any point in your life an Englishman asks you; how's Franco? You 
should immediately answer back; fine thank you, and Cromwell? 
This is of course a very radical and short analysis of the figure of Cromwell, but of 
course it holds a very big truth; Cromwell is the English example of a "proto fascist 
dictator".  The Irish nation not only believe this but they go further, calling Cromwell a 
"messenger from hell", as his "pacification", as he called it, of the Irish isle was more of 
a brutal massacre. He was a man who killed Charles II because he constantly closed and 
therefore silenced the voice of the people in parliament; but when Cromwell ascended 
to power, just a few years later, he himself closed it because of a dispute with the 
members. Having said all this, his statute still adorns the front entrance of the Houses of 
Parliament, because he was after all, a warrior for the parliamentary cause; and you will 
find many people from the English Jewish community that have very kind words 
towards Cromwell, as he was the first English ruler to permit Jews to freely carry on 
with their beliefs & traditions.

Before I carry on I would like to clarify that in my personal view, anyone that carries 
the title "hero" after the word "war", is the worst kind of qualifier you could give to a 
person, as above all, war is the most stupid thing invented by the human kind. 
But as that point of view may seem to radical, and if were to be at least a bit more 
objective, Both of the cases stated above are at least, two clear ones of what should be 
considered "war heroes". Winston Churchill decide to carry on fighting against the 
Nazis even though he knew this would mean loosing a terrible amount of lives in an 
effort that, at the time seemed damn near impossible. Oliver Cromwell fought against 
the king because Charles II was a ruthless authoritarian absolutist, who thought he was a 
little god on earth, and fought for the liberties of England. These are two cases I would 
be prepared to understand, as many others.

But what could be said about something like the recent invasion of Iraq?
Do people really believe it was a legitimate invasion of a country that apparently had 
"weapons of mass destruction" and that its leader Saddam Hussein was prepared to use 
at any moment?
Saddam Hussein is considered one of the worst war criminals in history, being next to 
some of the worst in our history, such as Stalin in Russia & Hitler in Europe. It is said 
that he has killed over 2.5 million Iraqis in all the time he has been ruling, and I sadly 
expect this is true. Saddam Hussein is more than worthy to carry the title of war 
criminal as he has subdued those who oppose him for decades. 
But what of a country that invades Iraq not with the purpose of freeing the Iraqi people, 
but to rid this country of the "weapons of mass destruction" it is supposed to have and 
by doing this breaking dozens of rules made for a very good reason by the United 
Nations, and killing over 200.000 Iraqi citizens as well. The aftermath of this war is still 
alive in the country after nearly two years. There is at leas 50 people dead a day because 
of the terrible situation that the country has been left after the invasion.
And the worst thing about all this is that this invasion wasn't developed by another 
country with another dictator on power. It was done by two "democratic" countries.
The United Kingdom & the United States of America are two nations that have always 
considered themselves as lands of liberty & democracy, but we see these two nations 
invading and tearing apart a country for one reason: oil. I don't care what future 
historians will say about the Invasion of Iraq, as most probably its history will be 
written by the victors, in this case the two nations mentioned above; this invasion was 
an illegal one, the United Nations worked against it and hundreds of countries 
demonstrated their disgust towards this invasion; but even so, the UK and the USA still 
went on with it.

My conclusion is that it is very difficult to classify with absolute objectiveness who is a 
war hero and who is not, as always there are victors and losers to every war; but I do 
believe that NOBODY should carry the title of war heroes, as war is something to be 
ashamed of, never proud.