
Transvestism is probably as old as the oldest profession in the world.  Either to 
make fun of the opposite sex, make people laugh or wishing to look like a man 
or a woman, transvestism has been and still is, present in nearly every society. 
In ancient Egypt, Cleopatra dressed like a man in the first years of her reign 
<R>, because men, although pharaohs (be them men or 
women) where all considered gods on earth, women were still considered 
inferior to men, so Cleopatra dressed like a man to show she was just as much a 
god as any pharaoh man before her.  But many times transvestism goes much 
further than all those reasons, and in many occasions the wish to look like either 
a man or a woman is a cry for help, or a blunt way of saying that they are not 
happy with the sex they were born with. In this essay I intend to look at the two 
main views about transvestism, fore and against, and also give a short account 
about transvestism in past and recent times. 

Transvestism, be for or against it, is very much alive in our present society. As I 
have stated before in the introduction, some of the earliest accounts of 
transvestism date back to ancient Egyptian times, and since then, many other 
accounts can be found throughout history. Some of the frescos in the destroyed 
city of Pompey, show many paintings of both homosexual behaviour and of 
transvestism in the heart of the Old Roman Empire <R>. But transvestism does not always have to 
be associated to homosexuality. It is a common mistake in today's world to 
assume that if you cross-dress, you are obviously a homosexual. The first 
person to put into writing what transvestism was, was Magnus Hirschfeld, a 
German physician and sexologist. He created the word out of the Latin, trans, 
meaning across; and vestere, to dress or to wear, in 1915 <R>. 
Today his works are all dated, as the word was also used to refer to those who 
were homosexual or asexual; nowadays we refer to a transvestite as someone 
who dresses in the opposite sex. This was pointed out during the Stonewall 
riots of 1969, where the homosexual and lesbian groups separated and 
demonstrated that transvestism and homosexuality didn't necessarily go 
together <R>. I asked my grandmother what she thought 
about transvestism and she immediately went into a flux, insulting attacking 
and pointing out how wrong it was to do so; but after she had simmered down, 
I reminded her of a certain day we spent in Blackpool, in the theatre at the pier, 
watching Dick Whittington. The leading male role was played by a woman, and 
the female leading role was a man. This of course is an old tradition, well 
known to all English people, but as a young Spanish boy I found this very 
unnerving. My grandmother stated that that was completely different, as the 
pantomime transvestism was part of the English Music Hall Tradition. After 
having seen some examples of transvestism in History, I will now give an 
account of the two main points about the matter.

<Q>. This is the introduction 
of a "closet transvestite" as he calls himself, he doesn't say what his real name 
is, maybe because of shame, or maybe because of fear of retribution, but we can 
clearly see, by reading further down, that he does not believe he is ill or mad. In 
this section of the essay I wish to give an account of those who favour or simply 
approve transvestites. <Q>. 
This is another statement by the same person. All those that favour transvestism 
seem to have this point in common; they find that dressing up in the opposite 
sex's clothes is both exiting and thrilling. They confess they get a very big thrill 
when putting on women's clothes, because they feel dirty, sexy, provocative, 
and in general terms, free to be someone they are not or someone they would 
like to be. I have a friend who is gay, and after asking him what he thought 
about transvestism he admitted he wasn't all that keen on the matter. He 
believed that <Q>. On the other 
hand, another friend of mine, well known for his outrageous costume putting 
tradition, told me once that <Q>. What he meant by this, he explained, is that transvestism was a very 
important way of expressing yourself as a homosexual, that this helped you to 
liberate your feelings and even sometimes, be your true self. I myself have 
dressed up as a woman in more than one party, and far from feeling shame; I 
found it was a lot of fun. What is more, after having dressed as a woman, I have 
never felt the slightest homosexual inclination, be it because I am heterosexual 
or because I haven't yet found the right boy...   

On the other side of the discussion, we have those who believe that 
transvestism is wrong. The main group of opposition nowadays against 
transvestism, are religious associations and conservative political parties. Most 
of the actual religions see transvestism completely linked to homosexuality, 
stating that one usually happens after the other. Catholic representatives of the 
Spanish church state that <Q>. They insist that 
transvestism goes against the Law of God, because God created man to be a 
man and a woman to be a woman, a man can never be a woman because this 
would end the reproduction purpose mankind was made for, and so man 
shouldn't dress like a woman. In the Muslim tradition, transvestism is seen as a 
very dangerous mental illness, and many countries under Muslim religion have 
seen cases of applying the death penalty to people who, just by dressing like a 
woman, demonstrate they are homosexual and therefore sinners.  We also find 
those who don't refer to holy books to demonstrate that transvestism is wrong. 
The "Plataforma de Padres y Madres" in Spain, state that transvestism is 
something to be very ashamed of, as it is something unnatural and very 
dangerous for younger people. They state that he who dresses like a woman is 
giving a very bad and wrong example to youngsters, because they are 
confusing them and showing them a world of "vice and twisted sexual 
appearance".

My conclusion is that, personally speaking, I see no danger in transvestism.
What is more, history has demonstrated that transvestism is something that has 
been around and accepted into different aspect of society (such as theatre, as we 
saw above), and that   no real harm comes from wanting to dress up as a 
woman or a man. But I do believe children should be educated to understand 
what it's all about, and teach both young and adults, to differ between 
homosexuality and transvestism, and more importantly, to respect both things.   
One of the worst fears of any human being is death. There are very few people 
who can really assure that they are not afraid of dying. This of course, when we 
look at it coldly, is rather stupid because after all, everybody dies eventually. So 
why, and especially in the occidental world in which we live in, do we fear 
death so much? One of the answers to this question could be that nobody really 
knows what happens or what awaits us after we die, because, nobody has 
actually returned from the dead to tell us. Or have they? 
Very recently, to be more exact, in the mid-seventies of the past century, a 
parapsychologist named Raymond A. Moody created a new term to describe a 
symptom that happens to a fifth of all the people that 'die' during an operation 
and then come back to life; this term was <Q> <R>. Dr. Moody 
described this process in his book, Life after Life, published in 1975 explaining us 
how many people had a strange experience whilst being clinically dead, be it 
during an operation or maybe in their own homes where many people have 
been reported to die, and them come back to life minutes later. He also tells us 
that not only people who have died and come back have these Near Death 
Experiences, but people who are dying or know they are dying, seem to have 
these experiences as well. In this essay I intend to look at the two main 
viewpoints about the Near Death Experiences, hose who believe they exist, and 
those who feel sceptical about them, and how the opinions on this process 
differ. 

In his book, Life after Life, Dr. Moody describes us nine different stages of the 
process of having a Near Death Experience (from which now on we will call 
NDE), which go as follows: <Q>. These are the two first 
experiences that a person suffers whilst having the NDE, so Dr Moody tells us, 
but sceptics, most of them being doctors and psychologists, such as Susan 
Blackmore, whom, basing herself on the studies of Dr. Topasz S. Troscianko of 
the University of Bristol, said that <Q> <R>. The next process Dr. Moody explains would go as 
follows; <Q>. This is 
the part of the NDE that has produced more discussions than any others. It is so 
because of the nature of the process, the first part, be you sceptic or not, is 
rather comprehensible, because after all, in my opinion, it is nothing more than 
a sensation of well being produced by the neural system of our body, and I 
share the sceptic point of view, because the natural thing for our body to do 
when we feel pain is to ease it by liberating endorphins, thus explaining the 
feeling of relaxation offered by Dr. Moody.  But the step of the process called 
"outer-body experience" is rather more complicated, because it doesn't only 
happen in the NDE, but also on its own. The "outer-body experience" is a 
process where we seem to leave our body behind and, being conscious of the 
whole process, see our own body from above, lying there, be you dead or not. 
Those who believe in the outer-body experience, explain that this is one of the 
steps Buddhist students have to achieve whilst training to become a monk, to be 
able to leave their body by meditation and concentration. But this process is 
very different from my point of view, because Buddhist achieve that outer-body 
experience by concentration, by training to be able to leave their physical 
bodies, whilst in the NDE, the process occurs when the person is unconscious. 
But sceptics, such as Dr. Jansen,  tells us that the process of seeing ourselves 
from above merely takes place because of <Q> <R>.
On the other hand, a study done by Dr. Jeff Long, who did an experiment 
concerning two groups of twenty-three people each, both of which had suffered 
from a life-death-life operation. The first group was formed by people who had 
had a NDE during the operation, and the second group, although they had died 
and revived during the operation, just like the others, had had no kind of 
experience or could not remember <Q>  
As we can see, the second group was very vane about what they had felt during 
the operation, many giving different points of view about the whole process. 
But what happened in the first group was, from my point of view, extremely 
surprising. <Q> <R>. This seems to be, in my view, a very convincing fact about "outer-
body experiences", which lead me to believe they probably occur, be it because 
of the process of the NDE or, as Dr. Jansen puts it, because of the effect of the 
anaesthesia <Q>.  This is probably the most 
famous part of the NDE, when the person who has just seen himself from 
above, now starts a journey up a tunnel. I personally share the point of view of 
a group of sceptics who say that this process occurs merely because we have 
been told so many times about the famous tunnel that ascends towards heaven, 
that we end up believing in it, especially if you're a religious person, so your 
subconscious makes you dream it whilst you are under the effect of the 
anaesthesia. In addition, an article published in the Skeptical Inquirer,  where 
L.D. Lansberry talked about her own NDE whilst having an operation. She said 
that <Q> <R>. She also describes the whole NDE as 
"tomfoolery". On the other hand, many people who belong to both the 
American and the Canadian church, Like Tom Harpur, who has written a book 
entitled Life after Death, where he talks about the process of 'the tunnel' as he 
himself and many other religious people lived it; <Q> <R>. Dr. Moody finishes is explanation on 
the nine points with the last step of the NDE; <Q> <R>. After returning from "the dead", people always say that 
they have changed. They feel different, and most of them and their families 
assure others that they have become better human beings. Because most of 
them come back feeling they have been given a second chance. I believe this to 
be true, because when someone, be the NDE true or not, has died and had that 
"dream", you tend to feel different, as if you could have died, but have been 
given a second chance to live. Sceptics say that the whole process of coming 
back to life is a very traumatic experience, and therefore believe that they have 
been given a second chance by God, for example. They also say that NDE are all 
but useful, because no one has ever returned from death with <Q> <R>.

Another interesting experience about NDE is that of children who have faced it. 
In the Documentary based on Tom Harpur's book Life after Death, where three 
different children talk about their NDE. What's so interesting about them is 
what they each saw after the "outer-body experience". They all went up 'the 
tunnel' but not a single one saw God, or any other spiritual manifestation. One 
of them, claims he arrived in a place called "Animal Heaven", where he found 
<Q> <R>. Another of the three children saw something completely 
different; he went up 'the tunnel' as well, but he stayed there fixed on the spot, 
when a figure appeared. It was his grandmother, who had died when he was 
four years old. He claimed he was <Q> but that his grandmother, 
although she did not say anything, gave him comfort. These two cases, for the 
sceptic eye, seem to be mere representations of child imagination, but I believe 
it goes much further than that. It is very interesting, in my own view, to see 
how different the NDE are between children and adults. While adults seem to 
share a same sort of experience, where either God or some other spiritual being 
manifests itself in front of them, children have a very personal NDE. This is 
probably because of their age, as they have not been under the influence of 
religious aspects for a very long time, their NDE are different from adults.

The conclusion we can get from all this information is that the Near Death 
Experiences seem to be proved. But what is not yet clear is the nature of these 
NDE; are they a spiritual journey into the 'other world' or merely an effect of 
our nervous system reacting to pain and heart failure. What is true is that as we 
have seen above, a fifth of all the people who have died and come back during 
an operation, claim to have had the NDE. My own conclusion is that I do 
believe the NDE are real. I believe they happen, but I don't see them as a 
spiritual test, or as a vision of the other world. I believe it is our subconscious 
showing us the vision of what we have though all our life, to be heaven or 'the 
other world after we die'.




