There is very little doubt that excessive road traffic is one of the main challenges that Madrid is facing. More than one million cars cross the roads of this city everyday. The purpose of this essay is to give a personal account on some of the possible ways to reduce the problems derived from traffic in a socially responsible manner. The solutions proposed below are meant to be socially responsible since they take into account two requisites: first, they are based on an equal opportunities requirement, and secondly, they are focused on traffic demand reduction rather than on increasing the supply, since I believe that increasing the supply is no more than a short term solution given that it is invariably followed by a corresponding increase in the demand. Accordingly, I will discuss solutions based on rationing, utility cycling, and public campaigning for traffic reduction. 

In any aspect of life, rationing is a non-discriminating manner of sorting social problems. In my view, rationing the use of cars in cities, and in Madrid in particular, could prove an effective and socially acceptable way to reduce traffic congestion. This system is already successfully in use in cities like Sao Paulo and Athens, where each vehicle is forbidden to use the roads during the rush hour during one day of the week. Rationing in these cities is being implemented with base on the number plates of the vehicles, which is obviously more socially acceptable than a system such as the congestion pricing implemented in Singapore or London. Although critics of this idea point out that it can still be discriminating since the wealthier drivers could get a second car, I believe that this problem could be easily sorted out by using the driving license numbers instead of license plate numbers as the way to determine which day of the week the drivers are forbidden to use their cars. 

A second way of tackling the traffic dilemma that I consider both realistic and socially acceptable is to encourage utility cycling. Its advantages in terms of reducing problems associated with road traffic like congestion, pollution, and noise are rather straightforward, and it seems unnecessary to list them; rather, the question in this case has more to do with its viability, which can be more disputed. Criticism to this solution tends to ignore the fact that, as cities like Beijing and Amsterdam have to a large demonstrated, city planning can turn the bicycle into the main protagonist of commuting. Other criticism has to do with the limited access of the aged to this particular means of transport, however, it seems to me that this would be a very limited problem, and that the advantages for this particular segment of the population resulting from utility cycling mentioned above, would doubtlessly outweigh this particular disadvantage.  

Finally, I would like to put forward what I believe to be the easiest way to reduce the traffic demand and consequently reduce its negative impact in a socially responsible manner: public campaigning for traffic reduction. In my view, the use of cars rather than other alternatives has much more to do with cultural habits and perceptions than with anything else; and it seems obvious to me that the authorities have the ability to alter these habits and perceptions to a significant extent, and have already done so in many other aspects of life, such as family planning, tax responsibility, or smoking. In my opinion, this public campaigning would have to be implemented in two complementary ways: first, negatively, by limiting and regulating car advertising, and secondly, by positively boosting the advertising of alternative means of transport and the publicity of the negative aspects of driving. 

As a conclusion, I would like to summarise the proposals contained in this essay: first, the reduction of the number of cars by means of a rationing system; secondly, the promotion of utility cycling as an alternative; and finally, the use of public campaigning to shift social mentalities away from the perceived imperative need to drive. It is my belief that the problems associated to road traffic congestion are far from being impossible to deal with, but rather the opposite, and that if we keep an open mind, various realistic and socially responsible solutions are not difficult to find and implement.   







 

Very few issues elicit as much worldwide controversy, debate and
concern as does abortion. The purpose of this essay is to give an
account of the main aspects concerning the ethical debate on whether
induced abortion is right or wrong. Accordingly, and given the limited
scope of this essay, I will not deal here with the various political
aspects surrounding the debate, but will focus instead on the ethical
arguments most commonly put forward in order to argue that induced
abortion, that is, the removal or expulsion of an embryo by a number
of different methods at any point during human pregnancy for
therapeutic or elective reasons, is ethically acceptable or not. These
different arguments can be referred to as personhood, deprivation, and
bodily rights.

Although all parties agree that an embryo is a human being, there is
some debate on whether it is also a human person with a right to life.
Those who consider that it is not a human person have established
several markers in order to define personhood, such as consciousness,
the ability to communicate and self-awareness, and have concluded that
since an embryo does not meet these criteria, it does not have a right
to life, and consequently, induced abortion can be deemed ethically
right. At the other end of this particular part of the debate, critics
of this position have often argued that these markers are met by
certain groups of human beings such as comatose patients and infants,
whose personhood and right to life are not disputed.

A second argument that has been proposed is concerned with the fact
that induced abortion deprives the foetus of a valuable future, and is
accordingly referred to as the deprivation aspect. Supporters of this
argument to deem induced abortion morally wrong argue that one of the
reasons why the killing of an adult would be morally wrong would
reside in the depravation of his or her future, and that since this
could also be applied to an embryo, induced abortion could be likened
to killing an adult human being, and consequently morally wrong. In
opposition to this view, some have argued that there are very few
psychological connections between the foetus and the future adult,
which in their opinion invalidates the aforementioned claim.

The third and final aspect of the debate we will deal with has to do
with arguments referring to a woman's right to control her own body.
In this case, all arguments have to do with the question of whose
rights come first, those of the woman or those of the embryo. Those
who give primacy to the foetus's rights have put forward several
reasons for this, such as the responsibility derived from the fact
that the woman had a choice not to get pregnant which she ignored (at
least in the case of pregnancy resulting from voluntary intercourse).
At the other end of the spectrum, those who give priority to the
woman's rights consider that responsibility cannot be likened to
rights and can be deemed irrelevant as a result.

The main arguments within the ethical debate on whether induced
abortion is right or wrong can be summarised as follows: first, those
that have to do with the nature of the human person as holder of the
right to life; secondly, those concerning the connection between the
embryo and the future it is deprived of as a consequence of the
induced abortion; and finally, those related to the primacy of rights
of women over embryos. As we have seen, this debate is multifaceted
and complicated by further philosophical issues, which likely
signifies that it will continue being highly controversial for quite
some time.
