

Although new and more severe traffic laws are being applied, the rate of car accidents 
does not descend. This makes me wonder whether the problem resides on the not hard 
enough punishment for this kind of crimes, which usually ends with paying a rather 
small amount of money as a fine. In this essay I will argue about the consequences of 
causing a car accident according to the new traffic legislation in Spain.

Two of the main causes of traffic accidents in our country are the excess of speed and 
not wearing the seat belts. Up to 77% of Spanish drivers agree that the function of the 
police is mainly to 'catch' in order to them to make them pay a fine . I think this way of 
punishment is in most cases useless because in my opinion money is just a way of 
getting rid of going to prison or doing any king of social work, what could really take a 
little of the driver's time to think about what they have done wrong. By paying small 
fines, I believe that they will just try to be more careful not to be seen by the police next 
time, but I do not think paying will persuade them not to commit the same fault again.

According to Pere Navarro, director of the DGT, driving at night is more dangerous and 
so it requires a driver with more experience, an experience that should be acquired with 
the light of the day, he says. It is being studied the possibility of forbidding night 
driving to drivers with less than a year since they got their driving license. This seems to 
me a senseless idea: someone who got his or her driving license is supposed to be able 
to drive under almost any condition; it is up to them to be responsible enough to know 
that, for example, they should not drink if they are going to take the car or that they 
should be more prudent with speed because at night it is more difficult to see the road, 
the people and the other cars. I feel that more presence of the police strategically 
situated making controls on the roads would be more effective.

It is true that with the new traffic laws the possibility to get imprisoned grows bigger, 
but anyway it will be the judge who determines the cases that must be punished with 
prison. Mario Arnaldo, president of the AEA, explains that <Q>. I strongly believe that this is completely 
unfair: you do not go to prison only because it is your first time? What kind of 
concession is this? I think, either being the first or the fourth time that you commit a 
crime, it is still a crime, and so it should be punished depending on its consequences or 
the damages it caused, not on what the person had done before the accident. 

Nowadays driving without having ones car insured is not considered an offence. Thus, 
from now on it will be punished with fines varying from six hundred to three thousand 
euros, and if the owner of the vehicle does not get insured in two months time, the car 
may be destroyed by the police. I believe that this is a great advance compared to the 
way it worked before: if the driver argued not being able to afford paying a car 
insurance the fine to pay was only sixty euros, which is very much cheaper than a car 
insurance. This new law will, from my point of view, be more effective because there is 
a big possibility of losing the car, apart from the fact that the fines to pay are higher and 
it would 'hurt our pockets' a bit more.

On the other hand, we have the case of Farruquito, this Spanish dancer who killed a 
man with his car and then fled form the place without attending the injured man. He has 
only been condemned to the minimal punishment of sixteen months in prison. As this is 
the minimal punishment and he had no antecedents, he can avoid going to prison. His 
only problem cloud have been money, but as he has lots of it, he does not mind paying 
at all. This situation appears to me so unfair, the way in which prison can be avoided by 
giving some pieces of paper to the family of the victim. What use will  money be to 
them if they cannot have the person they loved, I wonder. Cruel as it seems to me, 
nothing can be done because they say money can move a mountain, and unfortunately it 
does move a lot more than that.

To conclude, I maintain that although the new traffic laws are harder concerning 
punishment, they are still too soft or incomplete in many aspects; people may still not 
be afraid enough of these laws and as a consequence car accidents will go on happening. 
One possible solution, I believe, could be reinforcing police presence making controls 
on the roads and also increase the punishment for traffic offenders even more, making 
drivers think twice before being imprudent on the roads, not only for their own security, 
but for the rest of the people's. 












<Q> <R>. Despite there is a big amount of Americans who agree or simply do 
not care about homosexual marriage, there are still many of them who manifest their 
absolute disagreement with this kind of union. In this essay I will discuss different 
points of view about the fact that two people of the same gender have the opportunity of 
getting married. 

Supporters of traditional marriage consider that marriage shall only be defined as the 
union of one man and one woman <R> and so they do not consider 
same-sex marriage (SSM) natural; it does not fit their own definition. It was not until 
1967 that mixed race couples could marry, and this was a clear example of breaking a 
tradition. The institution of marriage has been changing for centuries, and it should go 
on changing to benefit those who want to make use of it. The argument of not changing 
something only because it is a tradition seems somehow weak: if we had always 
followed traditions, we would have never progressed and maybe we would still be 
thinking that the Earth is the centre of the universe, for example. 
Gay activists contend that SSM does not negatively affect heterosexual marriages, it 
will allow them to have access to the same benefits that other couples had always 
received and taken for granted <Q> <R>. This 
seems to be a rather persuasive argument: they are asking for their rights, what is 
absolutely legal; the laws do not contemplate their situation and they just want to have 
the same rights as any other married couple in the country has. 

Many conservative Christians believe that <Q> <R>. This 
could be a very strong argument: if you ask people to describe what their image of a 
family is, the majority of their answers would follow the definition mentioned before 
because in most of the cases they will describe what they are used to see. Nevertheless, 
as we look back into the past, this argument weakens: eight different types of families 
are described in the Bible, for example Abraham or Solomon had multiple wives (as 
slaves or concubines), furthermore, some excommunicated splinter Mormons still have 
more than one wife. 

Some people maintain that married homosexuals may not be good parents because they 
will raise children who will also be homosexuals; they believe that a male and a female 
parent is needed to well-breed a child. It may be true that living under the influence of 
people of the two genders might benefit a child in the way that he or she will be 
educated under two different points of view but, what happens then with single parent 
families? They just supply the absence of a parent of the opposite sex with the presence 
of a big brother or sister or a relative such as a grandmother or uncle frequent visits. 
Referring to the first argument, it could easily be refused: children do not always act 
like their parents: if they did so, children born of heterosexual marriages would always 
be heterosexual, and so it is possible that homosexuality would not exist. In addition,  
recent studies have shown that children of gay and lesbian parents do as well as children 
in heterosexual-led families and are no more likely to grow up gay and lesbian, in fact 
due to their same-gender parents' influence these children tend to be more tolerant 
towards minorities <R>. 

The five mayor religions of the world, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and 
Judaism, teach that homosexual behaviour is sinful or wrong. These same religions 
<Q> <R>. This argument is apparently strong: if you follow any of these religions you must 
not contradict their principles. If you belong to a certain religion it is because you 
believe on its teachings, and it should not be permitted anything that goes against them 
among their members. The problem is that this argument does not contemplate those 
who do not belong to any religion, and so they are not acting wrong because they are 
not actually breaking any rule. 

President George Bush said that <Q> <R>. In a first place, he is mixing his own beliefs 
and religion with politics, and the First amendment of the U.S. Constitution separates 
church and state, so that legislation can not be made on religious grounds. In a second 
place, amending the Constitution is not so easy, requiring a big majority of the votes for 
any change; in fact it has only been amended 17 times in 215 years <R>.

There are many arguments against same-sex marriage in America such as religion, 
affecting children and breaking with a relatively ancient tradition. Thus, ideas must 
progress and equal rights to all American citizens should be recognised. In conclusion: 
changes are always difficult to accept, understand and overcome, and maybe with the 
time the idea of same-sex marriage will be accepted and become a new part of our 
traditions.









