      
      In our present time there is a remarkable tendency in the society of the Western 
World to value more the studies that can be more economically productive and practical 
for the entering in the labour world than the humanistic studies that are considered non-
practical and, sometimes, even superfluous. This is clearly noticeable in the educational 
programs that the governments of many countries of this area of the world establish and 
in the requirements asked by many enterprises to their possible future workers. 
Moreover, there is a growing mistrust in the validity of some of these studies, since they 
are considered to be by many people very subjective and opposed to the objectivity of 
scientific studies. There are some groups of people that oppose the measures of the 
governments to limit the attention and investments devoted to humanistic studies and 
want society to take more interest in these fields of knowledge. In this essay I am going 
to present different viewpoints concerning the study of humanities and I am going to 
show my point of view, which is that it is important that humanities are present in the 
educational programs because they are very useful to acquire knowledge about 
important issues of humankind and its society.
      
      On the one hand we find the vast movement of society towards other kind of 
interests different from the ones that prevailed in other times. In the time being many 
people tend to reject theoretical knowledge and look for a more practical one. It is not 
rare to find a young student claiming that he/she prefers the sciences, because, in his/her 
view, they are more practical and they make people think, as opposed to the humanities 
that consist on only learning by heart what the teacher or the book says. Many people 
think that humanistic learning is not really useful. Some people like this kind of studies 
but consider that they are more studies for pleasure than studies with a real practical 
application in life. In this group of people we find, sometimes, some teachers of 
humanistic subjects and people who have got their degree in any of the humanistic 
branches.
      
      According to an American scholar, David Reynolds focusing on the studies of 
literature and art <Q> <R>. A few years ago according to Professor Michael Osborne 
in an speech in his Beijing Forum <Q>. Now, according to him, the situation is different and 
it seems that there is a <Q> <R>. The governments consider that this kind of studies is a luxurious waste 
of money, because in their view, they do not contribute to the development of the 
society.
      
      Some people try to make more people have interest in the humanities and to press 
the governments to give importance to humanities in their educational programs. David 
Reynolds, for instance, wrote an essay in which he defends the biography as a method 
to make humanities recover the credibility they have lost, because biographies are 
objective. In his view, the professionals of the field of humanities, especially those who 
study the fields of art and literature have to try to make people see that humanities can 
be objective and they are not a disorganised field of knowledge where any theory can be 
valid <R>. 
      
      The summary of an international conference entitled "Researching, vocational 
education and training" celebrated in 1999 expresses the view that <Q> <R>. She suggests doing a teaching person to person in technical 
universities since, in her opinion, <Q> <R>.
      
      There are some people who defend that some studies related to humanities are 
considered as sciences, because they claim that they do research to find objective 
results. This is the case of analytic philosophy <R> and linguistics. It seems 
that the search for objectivity is an argument to reject humanistic teaching. 
      In my view, it is fundamental to preserve an important space for the teaching of 
humanities in our time in all the stages of education. I think they are really useful for 
people to understand better the world and, in this way, improve their lives. Humanities 
in many occasions are no directly practical for living and they need to be accompanied 
by other kinds of knowledge to be useful in the world of work. However, the knowledge 
of one's own language and other languages to communicate, the knowledge of the 
sociological problems of the current times and the reasons why they exist, the 
knowledge of ancient cultures and cultures of other areas of the world, the Knowledge 
of how literature and cinema influence over people's lives, of the different religious 
systems of the world, of political, economical and social history, of how art has 
accompanied the different stages of history, the different notions of art that exist... are 
useful to ameliorate the understanding of the human being and, in this way, they can be 
useful to be applied to other purposes. In my opinion, the teaching of humanities is not a 
luxurious waste of time, but a fruitful contribution to the development of the society.
      
      It can be argued that humanities, since they are not experimental sciences, can 
never be objective and they do not contribute to a better understanding of the reality of 
things. However, I would argue that one of the main discoveries of humanities, the 
deconstruction, instead of lead us to think that apart of experimental sciences, there is 
not possibility to consider any real science more, it can be make us aware of the reasons 
why there are different ways of thinking and considering things, their arguments and 
counterarguments and, in this way, the humanistic learning contributes to a better 
understanding of the human world and its contradictions. Humanities teach people to 
think about important issues of the world, and, in this way they make people be more 
prepared both for their personal and professional lives. I believe that inverting time and 
money in the learning of humanities is inverting in the improvement of individuals and 
with that, to the improvement of the society.
      
      In this essay I have presented the tendency of the modern world to marginalize 
humanistic education sometimes because of the search of practical knowledge and 
sometimes for a search of objective knowledge, I have also presented the attempts of 
some groups of people to make humanities recover the prestige they had in other times. 
Finally, I have shown my point of view about this issue, which is that it is important to 
maintain humanistic studies in the educational programs to contribute to the 
development of the society and I have shown my arguments for this opinion.
      
      
      
      

      

       Corporal punishment: Deliberate infliction of pain intended as correction 
or punishment. Opinions on corporal punishment of children are varied. Whilst 
the practice is accepted and embraced in many countries, it is also illegal in a 
number of others. There is pressure in some countries, including United 
Kingdom, to have any form of corporal punishment of children made illegal and 
treated as child abuse. In this essay I will express my point of view, which is 
that a light slap sometimes proves itself as a useful "tool" in the process of 
upbringing a child.
       The early history of corporal punishment is unclear, but the practice was 
present in classical civilisations, being used in Greece, Rome, Egypt and Israel; 
used for both, judicial and educational discipline. This method continued into 
Medieval Europe, encouraged by attitudes of the medieval church towards the 
human body, with flagellation being a common means of encouraging self-
disciplina. From the sixteenth century onwards, new trends were seen in 
corporal punishment; judicial punishments were increasingly made into public 
spectacles, with public beatings of criminals intended as a deterrent to others.  
During the eighteenth century the use of corporal punishment was criticised by 
philosophers and reformers, which thought that inflicting pain on miscreants 
was inefficient and did not change their behaviour. They believed that the 
purpose of punishment was reformation. As a consequence of this way of 
thinking there was a diminution of corporal punishment throughout the 
nineteenth and twentieth centuries in Europe and North America.
    History is learnt in order not to commit the past errors. In my opinion, there 
is not a recipe to educate a chid, but doubtlessly the process has several 
ingredients, at least:
-	Love.
-	Communication abilities.
-	Great doses of patience (compulsory).
-	Time.
    In my opinion, a slap does not substitute communication or persuasion, but 
it can be seen as a loud knocking. It is important that children know that there 
are certain limits that cannot be trespassed because if so, the relationships may 
break, including those with the ones that love them best.
    In the modern world corporal punishment remains a common way of 
disciplining children. Although this has been outlawed in some European 
countries, most legal systems defend the right to the parent to discipline their 
child however they see, distinguishing between reasonable punishment and 
abuse; and in my opinion again, it is better than psychological punishment.
    Opponents argue that any form of violence is by definition abusive. They 
consider corporal punishment as a relic of barbaric past, usually associated with 
dictatorships, police states and fundamental regimes. They defend that corporal 
punishment causes the destruction of trust bonds between parents and 
children; that children subjected to corporal punishment may grow resentful, 
shy, insecure or violent. Some researches have shown that corporal punishment 
actually works against its objective (generally obedience) since children will not 
voluntarily obey an adult they do not trust.
    Proponents of the corporal punishment of children accept that excessive 
physical punishment amounts to child abuse, but this is not the case. The 
common sense is the limit, corporal punishment, properly administered can be 
a good and effective form of discipline for unruly children, and sometimes 
necessary. Without recourse to milder forms of physical punishment, parents 
may use forms of emotional violence that are actually more abusive. 
    When the indignation of the first moment is over, any sane child can 
understand the difference between exasperated parents up to their patience's 
limits, but immediately ready to forgive and to caress; and those inclined to 
violence due to vice or inability to use different methods.    
    Opponents argue that the use of physical punishment is directly related to 
the lack of educative and communicative resources of the parents and teachers, 
and it is also related with the internalization of violence, and also with the 
adults's frustration when they are facing situations that are not prepared to 
solve. Under their point of view parents should not abuse of their position of 
power. If parents get prepared to practice a profession, why do not get the 
proper preparation or skills for bringing up their children?
    
In 1998, in the United Kingdom, the National Children's Bureau and  Save the 
Children UK association conducted a unique exercise in order to hear the 
children's voices in regards of smacking. The two organisations wanted to be 
sure that the children could talk freely and openly about smacking and that 
they would not be influenced by adult's views on the subject.  That is why it 
was decided that children were told they were the experts on smacking, and 
that the organisations were seeking their views alone.
    They carried out 16 small groups with 76 five to seven year-olds in six 
schools and two summer play schemes. Each of the school groups were divided 
according to age, so that five, six and seven year-olds were questioned 
separately.
    The children were asked to create a story book with a central character, 
called Splodge, who did not know much about our world. To help Splodge to 
understand smacking, a series of questions were put to the groups of children. 
    This consultation exercise produced ten major messages:
1.	Children defined smacking as hitting, most of them described a smack 
as hard of very hard hit.
2.	Children said smacking hurts.
3.	The children that were listened to said children are the main people 
who dislike smacking followed by parents, friends and grandparents.
4.	The vast majority of the children who took part thought smacking was 
wrong.
5.	The children said children respond negatively to being smacked, and 
adults regret smacking.
6.	They said parents and other grown ups are the people that mostly 
smack children.
7.	Children said they usually get smacked indoors and on the bottom, 
arm or head
8.	The children said the main reasons children are smacked include: 
They have been violent themselves, they have been naughty or 
mischievous, they have broken or spoiled things or because they have 
disobeyed or failed to listen to their parents.
9.	They said children do not smack adults because they are scared they 
will be hit again.
10.	Half the children involved in the consultation exercise said they will 
not smack children when they are adults.

    There is another aspect: Time which in our society is not very common, in 
fact is as treasure. Parents, in order to give their offspring "all they need", 
usually work an average of 10 hours out of home, both of them. The result is 
that they see their children very little, and during the time they spent together, 
parent may miseducate their children by spoiling them. The children become 
exigent and intolerant, when the parents try to put them back on the track is 
too late.



