  For hundreds of years, most people have tried taking care of their bodies, because of their job or their way of living. For that reason, they follow some patterns to achieve, either with right measures to lose weight such as going to a gym or obeying medical rules to be on a diet accurately, or others, that do not correspond with healthy solutions to get a perfect body; that is to say, having a strict diet without a medical prescription, vomiting through laxatives to empty the stomach. It seems to me,  nowadays, there is a stupid idea of thinking that thin is beautiful. In this essay, I will give different opinions related to anorexia nervosa, and also, I will give my own opinion  about this subject.  Anorexia nervosa can be defined as a psychological disorder regarding to the lack of  having food voluntarily. There are lots of methods to lose weight unconsciously, such as  the act of vomiting to empty the stomach or a hard diet. That illness can be caused by  many problems <R> . First of all, a research suggests  that anorexia can be produced by social influences. What this means, most people,  young ones especially, think the beauty only goes with slender bodies, but the majority  of them get confused with that idea of thinness, because these young people can see  their favourite actors or models with perfect measure in their bodies and they try to  imitate them, because they have the wrong idea that being as them they will be  successful on life.                In my opinion ,  I think that taking care of our bodies is always a good idea and we  aim to reach that intention with right measures not to lose weight compulsory, for  instance, doing exercises and eating healthy food or going to our dietician because he  or she will be able to provide us a timetable with the precise moment in which we can  have meal or the food we should take. However, I would maintain that there are  people who need to lose weight quickly and one of the best ideas to succeed it, is the  refusal to eat or not to eat a lot, and doing intensive exercises which give as a result the  body they want. On the contrary of that result, I believe that people can have the   probability of not feeling good, they could have absence of their menstrual periods or  "amenorrhoea" in the case of women, because most of young women between thirteen  to twenty years-old are susceptible to fell into this eating disorder due to that social  factor mentioned previously; or the production of spermatozoid could be affected, in  the case of men.        A possible solution to this problem, could be the help of expert doctors who can  provide an adequate care to those anorexic patients, because it seems to me that the best  way of checking them out what they are eating, is under the supervision of doctors  and specialized people in this illness.       Secondly, anorexia nervosa is done by another factor, the occupational goals. It is  possible to argue that there are occupations which often expect women be slender, that  is to say, having no fat on their bodies; because their jobs do not agree with the idea of  taking fat people on, for instance, gymnasts, dancers, some actresses or fashion models  are expected to be thin. Some researches say that there is a notion or a motto which was  used to emphasizing the idea of many upper-middle class and college-aged women had  in their minds, regarding to become part of a professional society in these years; that is,  <Q>  <R> . This is done,  because some people, men especially, have had to look for another ways in order to feel  women underestimated by the norms of being successful in professional life through a  slender body. To put in another way, some people would argue that in most of their  definitions of attractiveness, the idea that a woman should be thin is included, and this  idea makes them sure a social acceptance to achieve the norms these men have set. In  the case of men, it seems that this perception is slighter different because most of the  times, men have been able to go far without the necessity of worrying about his body. It  is apparently true in Spain, the subject of eating disorders provides many points of   view, for instance talking about fashion models, they should be thin because of their  jobs <R> . Some models lose weight correctly, going to a dietician for  example, but there are those who do not go with right schedules in their meals, what it  means an increasing of this slimming disease.       For my part, I believe that people, who do not feel confident about their body, need to  be awareness of the importance of a bright mind nowadays, instead of spending most of  their time to get obtain a perfect body. Some years ago, anorexia nervosa was not a  very known-disease as it is recently. So that, the number of death people regarding to  this eating disease was highly increased than now. Moreover, people who suffered it,  did not realize that they had a serious illness because they was worrying about getting  professional position in life. I tend to believe, they thought the success in their job was  in the slimness of their bodies. Of course, I feel that having a slender body, helps  someone to increase in their self-love, but the using of weight should be controlled by a  doctor or an expert on this subject. Although, I strongly believed that society tends to  be so cruel with fat people, because there are stupid ones who thinks, they spend their  times eating without stopping instead of working properly, and this is so far from the  truth, in my view. As I see it, the idea of joining slenderness, slimness with  intelligence, is changing, I think it is done because there are several programs or news  that talk about  with the consequences of losing weight could bring, for example, young  girls or boys can think that is the main reason to go far in life, without taking care of  body. Because I feel that, food is so important for the working of brain, such as: fish,  milk, yoghurt, or chicken; they contain vitamins to help us developing our ability of  thinking and makes our body stronger. It appears to me, this is one of the best solutions  to be successful in job, because they provide us all the nourishment that our  organism needs to be on work and become the best professionals in our jobs.       I personally believe, a possible solution to leave importance to the type of body  that someone has, could be the balance on work with social activities, or learn to  communicate what we feel, because our boss or workmates have to know what our  opinion in favour or against about a subject is and we should be able to participate in  whatever project that our work needs, leaving apart our physical appearance and  giving attention of our intelligence.       In the third place, another cause that provokes anorexia is the genetic and biological  factors. These problems are increasingly done by people, whose relatives have suffered  that disease, than those who do not have anyone to develop the illness. At first, it seems  that, there was a not clear whether anorexic would come from a genetic linkage on  chromosomes for this complex disorder. What it is saying is that those researchers have  focussed on is in the <Q> <R>. What this phrase tries saying is several medical tests were made by these  experts to patients whose relatives have suffered this disease before, those who have  got twins and healthy people, the results are the discovery of the chromosome 1 that  contains genes which play a role to find the biological origin to that illness.       Those recent researches shows that, people who suffer this eating illness, possess a  genetic map with certain genetic markers. It is reasonable to argue that, there are  another factors to contribute to the development of the anorexic, regarding to biological  factors, they can be the temperament or the personality types, such as, obsessive,  compulsive or sensitive, that makes people more vulnerable to eating disorders than  others, or the stress because it can provoke the necessity of eating more, and whether  the patient notice their excess of weight, he or she will try to lose them quickly and it  can originate anorexia nervosa <R> . It has been suggested that another factor can be the age  and brain maturation of people who suffer this illness. Because, it appears that  depending on whether the disorder begins, either childhood or adolescence, it can be  difficult to deal with. However, behaviour can take part of this illness, due to the way  of resolving problems and facing up to the consequences that anorexia illness has.       Speaking personally, I feel that, the discovery of that chromosome has taken the  necessary steps to resolve different eating problems, such as the anorexia nervosa.  Because, it seems to me, people who are affected by this illness, can understand the  biological factor for which they are hard to face up. I tend to argue that anorexia  nervosa was only given by social or psychological factors. Moreover, this discovery  shows that there is other strong reason to believe this is not a mental illness, but genetic.  From my point of view, I believe that biological factors depends on someone's mood  and the stress they have, because as far as I know, these perceptions can be more likely  to get this slimming disease, and the grade of patient's maturity due to the emotional  impulses that he or she can have got, when they would be informed of the improvement  or not, of their illness. I would maintain that, this benefits to provide solutions to the  problem of anorexia can be seen in a very near future, because there is a gene-  replacement therapy that will be tested on some patients in the next year.       Finally, other factor that appears in anorexia is the psychological. In other words, it  seems generally accepted that, the way a person looks at the world is fundamental to be  controlled on the improvement of the disease, because, it appears that, there are some  people who tend to be perfectionist, that is to say, they do not have a middle side, they  just seeing life as black and white, and the same with people and food. Some of the  evidence shows that, they have in mind two types of people, fat and thin <R> . So that, the thinnest the person is, the better they feel to reach their  own projects. It is apparently true that, anorexia nervosa can be a reaction to sexual  assault or the fear of growing up,  because being an anorexic, some people can feel as  they were a child.        Other psychological factor can seem the desire of remaining weak and passive, in the  case of women, because some of them tend to think men will find them more attractive  <R>. Some researchers claim that the process of not being an  anorexic, is a long and difficult way to face up, because patients need to have much  help from their close relatives, such as family and friends; doctors and nurses can be  help them too <R> , but it is apparently true that  they feel more confident to overcome their illness with the patience of people who  support them.       My personal opinion of this argument is that, the aspiration of being perfect is one of  the causes that influences people who are anorexic, because, I believe that, they need to  be control in most of their lives, such as, family, friends, studies and food. Sometimes,  it appears to me that they do not have enough time to eat. So, they eat less than before  due to the stress of the busy life they have, what it provokes the feeling of angry in  them. I strongly believe in the view, about some women's slimness to attract men,  because this is a sign of lack of their own identity and in my view, family or closer  relatives must need to work by bringing back their personality, because, I think that, if  they do not do it properly, the patient can die in few months.        I would also mention some solutions to treat eating disorder related to psychological  factor. I strongly feel that, suffers have the support of their families and other entities,  for example, in the United States, there are a Self Help Group that provides a place to  share experience with others who have the same problem. In my opinion, I think it  would be the best idea to express their agreements or disagreements about they feel.  Furthermore, it seems to me, there are books which talk about all the kinds of eating  diseases which can help someone to recover from this illness by a guide.       To conclude, this essay has talked about the meaning of anorexia nervosa is, the four  main problems that influence, which are; social, occupational goals, genetic and  biological, and psychological factors. Moreover, some possible solutions to prevent and  recover from it. I believe that, considering all these points, people who suffers from  anorexia, have more probabilities to get better nowadays, because of the advantages in  medicine and information in the media mass, and also, with the help of closer relatives.                                                                                  
  

  


The recent beginning of the academic year in Spain has been the reason behind which, the media have paid attention to this issue among students, parents and professors in order to claim the improvement of  the spanish educational system  and to put it on the same level concerning to top countries such as France, United Kingdom or Germany in the matter of education and culture, giving special importance to principles like respect and tolerance so that we achieve a better co-existence, with a resolute commitment to be able to solve the new problems that the spanish education faces up to this early 21th century. The increase of harassment complaints made by the educational organisms and victim's families has amounted up to 59 in the last academic year 2005-2006 together with several cases of suicide attempts. On the other hand, the number of foreign pupils at school and institutes in course 2005/06 has multiplied by 8 (up to 529.4619) with regard to course 1996/97 , most of them , around 80% placed at centres and public schools, grouping students of more than 65 nacionalities. In the same manner, a research carried out in May '06 reflects that 1 in 4 professors (around 24%) that impart classes in public institutions have been direct victims of student's and parent's violence, being a 72% of them predisposed to a depression' leave, stress or the so-called "burn out" syndrome. In this essay I'll deal with the idea that prevention is the unique and best way to reduce the violence that spreads out all over the spanish educational centres.

The Government must be the first to support educational institutions. Therefore, state force and security corps have to play an active role to guarantee the integrity both of professors and pupils. Personally speaking, the implantation of a police supervision at the entrance and exist of the teaching centres is one of the main steps as a dissuasive measure as well as an effective manner of counteracting the violence outbreaks, aggressions or threats that may come up. In my view, with the purpose of speeding up the formal complaints, the police should have the use of a database with a relation of the students they keep watching over, to be able to make them to those who commit acts of violence, coercion and/or intimidation, aiming to deliver them to court, in order to hasten the process of investigation by the judge and to protect the victim as quick as possible. Obviously, this sanction may disgust to those who consider that streets will count with fewer security authorities and as consequence, the citizenry will feel insecure, provoking reiterated protests in view of the lack of means to fight the delinquency. It is also reasonable to think that there will be parents that will deny to provide their personal data to create a police register, due to the origin of such measure may also be used with other purposes as prosecution of offences, tax fraud investigations, etc. However, I'm convinced that the surrounding in which learning develops has to constitute a space of tolerance and respect that represents an incentive and motivation indispensables, where going in and going out from school/institute must bring a feeling of tranquillity and well-being.

Several sectors have requested the necessity of a change in current laws. Some parents and professor associations consider that the responsibility be completely assumed by the Government by means of "Ley del Menor" and "LOU" reforms. That's why they claim that any expression of violence or threatening sign be considered as an offence, whose punishment be to observe a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 2 years in young offenders institutes depending on the seriousness of the action committed. These associations claim the dialogue as a fundamental basis in order to acquire a deeper,  mental comprehension of how knowledge is an indispensable tool that will open every single path the subject will fancy going through. Parents also argue that their figure has to play a main role when at internment, that is, a timetable for visits, helping out their sons/daughters to feel that care and affection that are essentials in teenager's formation, adjusted, however, to a specialist's decision so that the treatment goes on properly without imbalances. A process that necessarily takes time, but that will work in the interest of boarders say parents. But I strongly believe that, adopting this proposal we fall again in the same mistake. The reason why I claim for a specific law at schools and institutes is the prevention of offences rather than having to solve them so I suggest the following: To allow educational centres to create a control committee integrated by social educators that faces up to preventive measures in order to make the public institutions, safer places whose main objective would be: To improve the security at classrooms and lecture rooms by the presence of security guards in charged of supervising the pupils, being authorised to expel any student who disturbs the normal pace of living together along with direct connection to the police station at any time, as well as a surveillance footage in each room to be able to use it as a proof  when in court.

To finish with, I think it's also relevant to point out the implantation of an X-ray device at the opening doors to detect if pupils are carrying any kind of pocketknife or razor together with the inspection of weapons to avoid tragedies that we usually see in the US. I'm not exaggerating, with the explosion of immigration, the so-called "ethnicity" has emerged with new problems because of a multicultural society where not everybody feel integrated on it, so it is short of inevitable the rise of groups more and more independent from  the rest, as a way to recognized oneself part of a collective and thus become more self-confident.

Spain is the european country that, by far, receive the largest number of immigrants each year. I tend to believe that law is not adapted to this phenomena and it's urgent to find solutions for a pacific surrounding at schools and institutes. The isolation and rejection of foreign students has, I'm sure, risen the cases of violence and so this is a proposal with a double aim: On the one hand, to rely on a student assistant of each of the nacionalities registered at schools and institutes so that he/she becomes a psychological support for the pupils, a person who will help out and motivate those who have lost their self-confidence and will fancy listening fellow countrypeople's stories. Moreover, this figure will be in charge of giving cultural information class once a week so that pupils start accepting others people's view of life and customs, approaching to a closed door, where in many times, ignorance becomes an impassable wall that creates stupid prejudices and false beliefs. Besides, it would offer new vacancies for unemployed immigrants that haven't got a chance yet. Although there're been cases of judges and jurists that have claimed that it already exists an educational inspection system, which sets a protocol of actuation when mistreating pupils, giving psychological support, health attention  and protection to the victim. They also suggest that immigrants be moved away and put in different classes with native teachers as well, in order to follow the educational system of their respective countries, as a way to make easier the development of their knowledge' acquisition, concerning to future possibilities when going back to where they came from. For my part, they are abandoning once again the most important goal: the prevention. That is, poor cultural level drives us irremediably to a state of alienation in which our perception of other people will fade because of an ignorance that will become a huge monster whose contempt will find no limits, able of the most horrible offences, nourishing with others' suffering. 

Professors are also a part of the problem and of the solution. As far as I'm concern, the so-called "burn out syndrome" is due to long stays at the same centre and so it has effect on professors' performance. I tend to believe that students are not just the only responsible of having reached this point of desperation among professors, as the lack of formation derives towards a spiral of indiscipline whose consequences culminate in a completely loss of motivation. But as simple as this: Professors would rotate from one  educational centre to another every academic year, according to the area they live in, in order to improve their enthusiasm, facing new challenges with renewed illusions and perspectives, being absolutely much more psychologically prepared and that will have immediate repercussions in students' performance as well. Though this decision does not satisfy the conservative side, people who went to the so-called "old school". They just claim a return to old methods: discipline, authority and physical punishment. According to this criteria, they want professors to do strict teaching courses to get back the effective strategies used by their tutors so that teachers recover a sacred respect of their figure. However, we now live in an open-minded society where such rules would certainly put the risk of teachers by receiving hundreds and hundreds formal complaints against them. Old techniques belong to old times, so there's no point on going back to those days of repression and prosecution, we need a step ahead, a firm decision to stop teenagers from committing constantly abuses and not to hark back to ancient phantoms. 

