Saturday, 30th of December 2006 has come to be without doubt a crucial date in terms of world wide social and political debate. The last moment on earth of the <Q>  by hanging can be followed second by second by the entire world <R> . Being above 18 is the only requirement to have access to the cell-phone video broadcasted by Al-Iraqiya state television few hours after his death, the full <R> . Now that the action has irreversibly been carried out, the whole trail left by the brutal rise and fall of this dictator seems to be nothing but a puzzling pile of international confusion which, in my opinion, doesn't let the real-self look at the issue properly; that of capital punishment. There are too many facts to list in respect to Sadam Hussein's blood shedding; in fact, there are so many that a recent poll carried out by Harris Interactive in six major countries showed that five of them supported his execution by more than half of the people questioned, leaving only one -Italy- out of it <R> . So it's clear that the scars left by war and genocide are always too deep for the public eye to forget. However, this hasn't stopped Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch to see beyond the figure of the assassin and inform of the violation to the right to life instead. Yet, above all, it should be added that Iraq's government reinstated the death penalty in August, 2004 -in cases of murder, kidnapping and drug-dealing- therefore, Hussein's death sentence in his own country last 5th of November was as unavoidable as expected <R> . Taking all into account, the aim of this essay is to analyse both of Sadam's roles; that of the tyrant, and that of the human being through different communities' responses, in order to find out whether such a humiliating end truly served any purpose.

To begin with, it should be said that Saddam Hussein was captured in December-2003 near his home town; eight months after the launching of the US- led war to disarm Iraq. He had supplanted the former Iraqi president in 1979 with the Ba'ath party, and since then, ruled the country under a dictatorship which came to be brutal in all its extent, nearly 25 years <R> . The International Criminal Court created in July-2002 has only legal competence from the date of its creation onwards, and Saddam was to face charges against humanity since the start of his ruling, therefore he was tried by a domestic or national court- that is, with Iraqi judges and prosecutors <R> . He was then found guilty of murder, torture and forced deportation and so convicted of crimes against humanity for the killings of 148 people in the Shia town of Dujail in 1982. As mentioned before, since the death penalty was restored in 2004, he was sentenced to death, together with another two members. And he was put to death not long after <R> .

The feedback after the event considering Saddam as a tyrant is not surprisingly that of 'what goes around comes around' or 'he got what he deserved', in general.  Yet, the fear of further consequences to arise from this execution is as predictable as normal in an unstable country like Iraq. The Shia southern provinces and Shia areas around Baghdad, for example, started celebrating and chanting a few moments after the execution was announced <R> . The same happened with the Iraqi-Americans celebration in Dearborn, Michigan, the largest concentration of Iraqis in the United <R> . Mowaffak al- Rubaie, Iraq's national security adviser, made strong emphasis on having executed Hussein and not the other two men, for that date should be regarded as a 'historic distinction'. Obviously, president Bush's statement on the execution was introduced by this opening sentence: <Q>  <R> .

Not so happy seemed the Kurd community though, in reference to the trial that Hussein won't be able to stand anymore, that of the terrible gas attack on the town of Hallabjah in 1988, which killed 5,000 people <R> . Sunnis themselves soon reacted to Saddam's execution through a car bombing with as many as 30 dead in the Shia city of Kufa. Likewise, in Libya, three days of mourning were announced for the late president. In fact, as it has been suggested by Zaki Chehab, London bureau chief of the Middle Eastern Al Hayat-LBC TV, more tension is expected to emerge out of this issue in different Eastern spots; that would include Iran, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon for the Shia's part and Libya and Palestine for the Sunni's <R> . Mr. Blair has stood on the side of those who condemn the execution since the UK is against capital punishment; however, he also mentioned that it was for the Iraqis to decide on Hussein's fate.

On the other hand, looking at the issue through the eyes of those who were able to see a human being sentenced to death behind the monster figure, it should be said that protests against the ex-dictator's sentence sprang soon after from different sources. The end could be seen before it happened: the French CETIM ("Centre Europe-Tiers Monde") expressed his doubts openly to the UN regarding the right of every person to be tried fairly by a competent and independent tribunal. In the case of Saddam -and knowing he couldn't be tried by the International Criminal Court- CETIM claimed that a proper, accredited and representative tribunal should be created in Iraq, freely elected by the Iraqis under international supervision -that is, without the Americans still in the country-. There was a problem arising from this suggestion, though: having an independent process against Saddam could have dragged some others to prosecution for incrimination. In other words, those who happened to have helped Hussein by providing weapons (British, American, French, Russian and Chinese companies-whose identities were listed in 12,000 pages given by the Iraqi government to the UN in 2002) and therefore to have been directly related in cases such as that of the 5,000 deaths by the gas attack in Hallabjah <R> .

Today, thanks to Amnesty International, we know that Hussein was denied of legal counsel during the first year of his arrest, we also know that the court failed in witnesses protection -as three of them were assassinated-, and, taking literal words of Malcolm Smart, Director of the Middle East and North-Africa Programme, we also know that <Q> <R>.  This was also predicted by Human Rights Watch in 2003, when suggested that the creation of a mixed domestic-international court in Iraq should have been a priority in order to administer fair justice in the case <R> . Regarding the European Union in its Declaration by the Presidency on behalf of the European Union on the occasion of the World Day against Death Penalty of October-2006, it was assumed that <Q> . That was only two months before the execution.

So then, personally speaking, how comes there had been so much prediction and yet nobody had been able to do anything about it? I can not work out how could this have happened whilst the Americans were -and are- still in the country, or how comes nobody is going to be held responsible directly or indirectly for 5000 deaths. Even less when I think of the atrocity of the execution itself, as my honest opinion is that once Hussein was arrested and held a war prisoner, even a life sentence would have made no difference as far as the result is concerned. Even better, as he would have been capable to stand other expected trials, and so others would have gone to trial as well. But maybe is in here where the key of the execution's purpose lies. Add to that the show of a two and a half minute video and the constant hammering of the media, and there you go: real purposes can't be seen anymore, as if it were magic. Instead, society gets involved in debating the easiest part of the issue as a whole, that of whether he deserved it for being a tyrant and a monster. I find ironic the way one dictator could end up 'resting in peace' in consecrated land whereas another was world wide watched being humiliated and hanged without even finishing his prayers. The abhorrent manner in which the execution was carried out has been strongly rejected by the UK, Italy and France <R> . And so, by me.

In any case, there's no way back now. He was executed and that was the end of it, or of the first part, at least. The second one, which is left again to individuals to be dealt with -unfortunately-, is nothing but the fear of what is to come next in the so called by president Bush 'War of Terror'. As Oliver Miles very well suggested in his comment published in The Guardian in November-2006, <Q> . So there you go, no hope for the year coming. We won't see peace in that part of the world this year.

To conclude, after having gone through Saddam Hussein's execution from different collectives -taking into account the responses of those who were tyrannized and those who were not as well as those who tried to deal with it by avoiding the tyrant role- there is nothing left to be said regarding the 'irreparable' action that had been predicted. Unfortunately, there will definitely be something in respect to the consequences that might derive from the execution of an Arab -tyrant or not-, though. Amnesty International provides with official measures to express discontent with Saddam's execution as well as with hundreds of capital punishment cases around the world. As for myself, personally -I'm totally against capital punishment-; I would definitely make emphasis on expressing total disagreement with those cases that -like Hussein's- had no opportunity for the sentence to be commuted, a human right. If everybody interested showed a little concerned and took some action, the horrible death of the dictator could still serve a purpose after all, that of total abolition of the death penalty.





 






     Do citizens have the right to possess and carry guns? Should they be restricted only to   the security forces? Furthermore, should they be completely erased from our society?   The constitution of the United States of America, which was written in 1787, establishes   in its Second Amendment the right of every citizen to have and to carry guns. Ever   since, the issue of restricting the use of guns has been a constant in the U.S. In this   essay  I will try to explain the reasons for which, in my opinion, guns should be banned   in any society and normal citizens should not have the right to purchase or to carry   guns.     First of all, I would like to argue that, when we feel ourselves offended by someone or   when we suffer an attack, we always have the temptation of taking the law into our own   hands. Normally, the idea of counterattacking just remains in our thoughts. In my   opinion, if we had a gun in our possession, the possibilities of going ahead with this   counterattack, that is of shooting someone, would be highly increased. So we rely on the   security forces in order to be protected from any attack. It has often been argued by   those favourable to gun possession that it is one's duty and responsibility to defend   yourself and your people and that, as concerned and responsible citizens, we just can't   sit and wait for the police to defend us. Of course one could argue just as the saying   goes: "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth". Personally I think that one of the basic   principles of any society is the respect for the law and the reliance on the State's   security forces as guardians of our freedom and our basic rights. In my opinion they are   the only ones that should be allowed to carry guns and it is their role as guardians of   people's freedom and rights what enables them to do so.     One of the peak moments of this debate came after the events that took place in 1999    at the Columbine High School in Colorado, when two students shot dead 13 other   students and then killed themselves. It is a fact that the guns and ammunition they used   in the shooting were bought in a gun store. It can be argued that these two guys would   have committed the crime whether guns were legal or not, they just would have had to   go to the black market. My intention is to argue that, if guns had been banned and had   not been available at a nearby gun store, they probably would still have been able to get   hold of the guns but it certainly would have been more difficult for them to do so.     Another recent case that I would like to point out is that of the "Washington Sniper"   who, in the year 2002, killed 10 people and wounded seriously another three in   Washington D.C. Those that defend the right to have guns, leaded by the National Rifle   Association (NRA) and their slogan "Guns don't kill people, people kill people", claim   that these are cases of people that would kill whether they had a gun or not, they claim   that they would use knives or any other kind of weapon. In my opinion, this may be true   in some cases but, in the majority of cases, it is the access to guns what produces the   crimes.     To support my opinion, I would like to give some statistics. It is estimated that in the   U.S there are around 200 million guns in private hands, one million of which are   estimated to be in the hands of high school students. In 1996, an estimated 14.000   murders were committed with guns, and 5.500 of the victims were between 15 and   24 years old. In the year 2000, according to estimations by the FBI, 15.517 murders   were committed, the 66% of which were committed by guns. So I think it is reasonable   to conclude that there is a clear connection between the number of guns in private hands   and the number of gun-crimes commited.     My personal opinion is that a severe ban concerning guns in the U.S would help to   reduce these numbers. Similar measures have already been adopted elsewhere, in the   U.K for instance. On march the 13th 1996, a man named Thomas Hamilton murdered 16   young kids and their teacher at a primary school in Dunblane, Scotland. Afterwards he   shot himself. Immediately, several proposals were made in order to ban all handguns   except 22-caliber target pistols. The law was approved in february 1997 and it was   amended in november of the same year in order to extend the ban to all handguns.   Previous to the approval of the law, an organisation called The Gun Control Network   was created with the objectives of achieving stricter controls on any kind of guns and   obtaining gun registers at a national scale. As a result of this, three months after the   Dunblane massacre, 23.000 guns and 700.000 rounds of ammunition were handed in to   the authorities. Today, the U.K has a total and complete ban on handguns and some of   the world's strictest laws on guns.     In opposition to these measures, one could say that not only guns kill people. Lots of   people get killed in car accidents, or are killed by drunken drivers, and no one has   proposed to ban cars because of this. There are also people that are stabbed to death and   there is no ban on knives; moreover, we can buy a knife in almost every supermarket. It   could be argued that many objects that we regard as harmless could be used with the   purpose of killing someone. For example, if we hit someone with a fire extinguisher in   his head, we might kill him. So why should we ban only guns and not, for instance, fire   extinguishers? My argument is that, whereas other objects such as the ones I have   mentioned serve certain purposes such as a means of transport in the case of a car or   putting out fires in the case of fire extinguishers and can be misused by human beings,   in the case of guns they serve the exact purpose for which they have been made: to kill   people. Of course many people claim that the purpose of guns is to go hunting, not to   kill people but, seriously speaking, no one goes hunting with a 9 millimeter Parabellum   or with a Magnum 44.     Taking a look at the data I have provided so far, in my opinion it would seem   reasonable that guns should be completely banned and erased from our societies. But is   this possible? It seems to me that the answer to this question is "no" and I will give   arguments to explain why.      The wholesale value of guns manufactured in the U.S in 1997 totalled more than $900   million. The value of hanguns manufactured that year totalled $344 million, while the   value of rifles and shotguns totalled $565 million. The value of ammunition   manufactured totalled $430 million. The combined wholesale value of both   manufactured guns and ammunition in 1997 was more than $1.3 billion. Another   argument that I would like to put forward is that between 1998 and 2001, the U.S,   France and the U.K obtained, by selling guns to developing countries, more money than   the one they officially employed to help these countries develop themselves. Moreover,   the five permanent members of the Security Council of the United Nations, that is the   U.S, the U.K, France, Russia and China, are responsible for the 88% of gun exports.   Considering these data, it seems to me that there are some huge economic interests   having to do with guns and that banning them would not be possible from the economic   point of view.     To sum up, I have tried to show that self-protection is not a valid argument to justify   the possession of guns and that the security forces are the only ones who should be   allowed to carry guns in order to protect us. I have shown the connection between   the access to guns and their possession and the actual commitment of crimes and I have   also given some examples of gun-related crimes and some statistics concerning these   crimes. I have also provided an example of a gun banning measure that was adopted in   the U.K and I have explained why guns should be prohibited. Finally I have explained   that, from my point of view, guns will never disappear from our societies due to the   huge amount of money that the arms industry moves.     
