      In the past ten years society has witnessed a huge increase of violence against women. Nowadays, people are getting used to hear about another one murder in the news. The fact that in the last three years 193 women have been killed by their sentimental partners has brought up once again the issue of how this can be happening. In this essay I intend to put forward my opinion regarding to women's mistreatment and some of the solutions that should be taken to avoid more women dying in such a degrading way.

      From my point of view, violence against women is something intolerable and part of it comes from the male chauvinist society that has been established since a long time ago. I believe that women ended up accepting the role of inferiority and now still see the figure of the man as the one of the boss. It can be seen everywhere that sexism exists only by noticing that sometimes women have more difficulties when applying for a job up to losing it when having a baby. This is one of the reasons why the man is seen as the dominant person in the relationship and because of that he can adopt the position of being the one who can mistreat his couple if the case is given. However, there are those who think that it is not a real fact because there have been also cases in which men were killed by their wives or partners. Nevertheless, it appears to me that these have been minimal cases compared to the 59 murdered women in 2006, the 62 murdered in 2005 and the 72 murdered in 2004. My own opinion is that it is not a question of numbers but it is just that men are stronger than women and the majority of them support their mistreatment with different excuses.
      I strongly believe that men who mistreat their couples are in their mental fullness. They are usually jealous and possessive men and they do that just when they are out of control because a situation has overcome them and they don't know how to act.  So they decide to show all their anger by hitting the person near them and after that to regret what had happened and they have done. There are people who defend this conduct by saying that they maybe were under the consumption of alcoholic drinks or any kind of drugs or even sometimes that this person was mentally sick. I tend to believe that it does not exist any excuse to commit this horrible treatment and that nobody should be justified by saying such things.

      My opinion is also supported by the fact that the application of the penal code has many flaws. <Q> <R>. This quotation pretends to include a specific penal sanction when the person who mistreats a woman had a relation with her. It means that it is still not included and that is why there are <Q> <R> . Speaking personally, I feel that many measurements should be taken on the penal code in order to accelerate these trials and also thinking in a hard sentence for those committing ill-treatment. There are people who think that these measures are already taken and that there is the need of concentrating in another problems that are more important in our society. For my part, I consider violence against women one of the major problematic issues nowadays and I really feel that it should be taken more seriously by all the population including the police department to arrange more security for those women and the woman herself to trust in her principles and decide to report the aggression to the police.

      It seems to me that there is another important factor in this topic and it is the hesitation of some women when going to report an abuse from her partner. There are many cases in which women suffer from affective dependance syndrome. It is a specie of Stockholm syndrome because it leads the woman to justify and forgive her aggressor. They love their couples so much that they think their husbands will change and they feel like they are nothing without them in their lives. It is clearly explained in the next quotation: <Q> <R> . They are afraid because they think they are not safe and the aggressor can take reprisals against her or simply because they have no escape because they are mothers and cannot live on their own, with their own salary. However, some people may think that they live this way because they allow their sentimental partners to hit them and they don't try to fight them. I would maintain that they are weaker in both senses: physically and also psychologically because aggressions stay in their mind as something traumatical but they should try to make an effort and as I have said they have to report the abuse. In my view, the best method to become a strong woman is to assume things as they come and report the mistreatment as soon as possible. All of this hard situation will be healed by familiar support and a new view of the woman's possibilities.

      I personally believe that some solutions should be taken rapidly such as arranging the necessary changes in the penal code in order to  have a relation with the seriousness of the crimes commited to women. It could also be a good idea to gain the resources to edificate more first aid posts and recovery centres in order to attend mistreated women when having to run without help. Campaigns to be aware of violence against women would be useful directed towards society to help changing this mentality and to break with the topics that divide society in genres. The assignment of more policemen and civil guards to protect the victims is taking place nowadays but there should also be the guarantee of the teleassistant service in an effective way when help is needed by a defenceless woman. The most important of these measures is the immediate arrest of the aggressor that breaks the restraining order. However, we can still know about cases that break this order: <Q> <R> . In my opinion, I believe that it is unfair because this is one of the solutions that should be taken by justice, law should be stronger with these aggressors and the responsibility should not only be presented to women as to be alert but to take serious measures regarding this and try to change it into a more reliable solution.
      Speaking personally, I believe that the name given to this violence is inappropiated because there are differences between gender violence and domestic violence. This is explained here: <Q> <R> . It is clear that this kind of violence takes place in private environments where the woman usually ends up being subordinated to the man. However, despite this quotation, some people think that these definitions are the same and that both can be used alternatively without depending the case of violence. Nevertheless, my opinion of this is that they are different terms and that none of them should be used to refer to this mistreatment to women. In order not to fall into sexism, it should be simply called violence against women without denoting terms such as genre or domestic.

      To conclude, I have tried to show that from whatever perspective I consider this issue, violence against women cannot be justified: one of the most important reasons is because it goes against women's rights and another one is because it is an humiliating and terrible act that is taking place throughout the world. However, I am convinced that in the near future, in spite of these approaches, a bigger part of the population will raise and come to a solution for this problem that is taking part in a violent and threatening society and that it is also taking so many lives every day.


Homosexual marriage has been one of the most controversial issues in recent decades. The progress of society gives now the possibility of two men or two women getting married in some countries around the world. These unions are something common nowadays and there is evidence of this. In Spain, there were 1275 homosexual marriages in 2005 <R> . This happened just after the Spanish Government approved the law of homosexual marriage on 30th December of 2004. By now, 2219 unions of the same sex have taken place in Spain until October of the recent year <R> . However, this legalization is not desired by some part of the population, who cannot bear seeing these couples together and who have a different opinion about this kind of relationships because they see them as something unnatural and cannot accept them. In spite of this, there are also those who consider the opportunities given to them as something worth discussing. In this essay I will discuss some of the main viewpoints dealing with the possibility of homosexual marriage and children adoption.

To begin with, many people believe that prohibiting them consists on a violation of human rights, a violation of their freedom and also it is an act of discrimination. One of the reasons why they can be not permitted is because some people see them as a sin. <Q> <R> . The general feeling is that the decision of homosexual marriage should not be seen from a religious point of view. Everyone knows what s/he needs in life and his/her likings so they are free to decide how to live without caring about principles that maybe are not important for them. 

Some people might also claim that <Q> <R>  or, for example, one case in the United States: <Q> <R> . According to them, they only see their relations as something unthinkable and their marriages as a religious ritual. They simply don't care about the feelings of the couple and the personal commitment that this means. In addition, people against homosexual marriage could consider that <Q> <R> . It could be claimed that those who think this are conservative people using the Church as an excuse to the real thoughts that they have about this issue such as: being <Q>  (The real reasons people oppose gay marriage).

It could be also claimed that homosexual couples can, as well as the rest of the population, have the same advantages as heterosexual ones <Q> <R> . There is also the case when a medical urgency occurs, the most important person is the immediate familiar, the person who decides what to do is the husband/wife. This argument seems to make sense since they do not have to be discriminated from society just for a same-sex relation. It would be unfair that these couples wouldn't be able to have these benefits too. 

In spite of this, some people might argue that gay couples are unnatural and abnormal and that the typical or original marriage is that of a man and a woman because two men or two women together could be seen as a contradiction of marriage. This could be considered a realistic perspective due to the fact that only a man and a woman can pro-create but this is not completely true because adoption is another way to give birth to a child. And now, homosexual adoption is generally allowed in countries where homosexual marriage has been legalized. Most people seem to believe that homosexual marriage is declining the original one formed by a man and a woman. However, the rest could maintain that this isn't something new as heterosexual marriage has been declining for a long time with these high numbers of divorce throughout the world.
One of the most important arguments in favour of homosexual marriage is that adoption would increase. <Q> <R> . As they cannot have children naturally, the number of adoptions would be higher since they desire to create a family as any heterosexual couple. This point is rather convincing although it is possible that some people believe that <Q> <R>  because this situation can damage the mother's figure in the case of two men and the lack of the father's figure in the case of two women living together. <Q> <R> . And they also can state that it could be noticeable in the children's education.

According to what I have said before, there are several arguments in favour of homosexual adoption. Many people feel that society develops and new things are accepted. They argue that there is no need of closing, no need to see only one alternative, so that homosexual couples are the same as heterosexual ones and have the right to adopt children. This quotation explains it further: <Q> <R> .

Research suggests that <Q> <R> . That is what most people think, growing with homosexual parents will not determine the sexual orientation of the child. Living with homosexual parents has nothing to do with the likings of the child. Furthermore, it is apparently true that children brought up by homosexual parents receive the same education as the rest of the children or even better since the majority of such couples are known to be very responsible.

One of the most reasonable arguments in favour of homosexual adoption is that <Q> <R> . Many people would claim that the only way to defeat prejudice in the world is by the insertion of homosexual couples in society and allowing them to adopt children.

Some arguments against homosexual adoption are maintained, mostly by religious and conservative people. These people might argue that <Q> <R> . They might assure that homosexual couples cannot be a correct model to follow by their children because it is abnormal to see two men or women together that haven't got the possibility to procreate. This is also clearly understood with this quotation: <Q> <R> .

Another possible viewpoint against homosexual adoption is that as homophobic conduct is still present nowadays, maybe children adopted by these couples can suffer in the future or also can be ridiculed or insulted at school due to their situation. People who agree with this, maintain that the most important thing is to avoid these cases of homosexual adoption to preserve the child's physical and psychological integrity.

In addition to this, it might be persuasively pointed out that some people argue that gay adoption should be prohibited because of this statement: <Q> <R> . 

There are other viewpoints regarding this issue which are in the middle and depend basically on the difference between marriage and adoption. It could be argued that homosexual couples should have the possibility to get married because it is their choice and no union can be forbidden if two people love one another. However, these people can also feel that homosexual adoption shouldn't be permitted because the appropriate home environment is that of a man and a woman being the parents. These people generally maintain that children shouldn't be exposed to this kind of living as this could affect them and their sexual orientation in the future.

In conclusion, we can see that this is a controversial issue in all senses. There are many arguments both defending and condemning homosexual marriage and adoption. Some of them deal with the individual freedom of the individual to choose his/her likings, and others deal with the condition of seeing these marriages as a sin and these adoptions as something unthinkable going against nature. The arguments in favour appear more reasonable in terms of pluralism, since not everyone is religious. It might be also argued that homosexual unions are not accepted not only because of religion but also for being something unnatural.


