In our present society students must face lots of problems and obstacles inside and outside the 
schools or universities. Many of these problems, such as exams or personal problems, may make 
them feel depressed or they may throw in the towel, but they must solve them if later they want to 
get a good job. In this essay I intend to introduce the main problems suffered by school students 
and university students and some possible solutions to try to avoid these problems in some way. 

There are several serious problems which may affect school children's progress and behaviour. 
First of all, one of the main causes is the exams they have. Some children 
fail the exams since they are so nervous, and even though they have studied a lot before, they may 
have a mental block and there are two possibilities: they fail or although they pass an exam, get 
less grade than they worth. Maybe because of this, or also because some students are too lazy, 
some of them make crib notes, so they don't learn anything at all. Really, the fact of making an 
exam can be too exhausting for some school students, above all when they are in High School, 
where the level is harder than Primary School. Also when they have to pass "Selectividad" there is 
too much disquiet, principally as "Selectividad" is the big step from school to college, and students 
risk many things in these exams. It's also said that the persons who mark the exams in 
"Selectividad" are too much harder than the teachers in the school, so the students are extremately 
nervous. For example, it's said that some students, above all in "Selectividad" and "Bachillerato", 
take tranquilizers or something like this to study all the night. But this is a bad way of getting good 
grades, because sleeping is fundamental to make a good exam, and if you don't sleep, in the 
morning they will be so tired that they won't be able to concentrate or reason for making a good 
exam. 

Second, other causes of bad progress or behaviour are personal problems. For instance, if the 
parents of a child are divorced, the kid's progress in the school may decrease, as it's said when the 
parents are divorced, sometimes the kid cannot accept it, and he's very sad, or sometimes (but few 
times) he might become a little bit agressive. Also if their parents marry again with another different 
person, the child may does not accept him or her. And it is rather a big problem the theme of the 
child's  custody, so the kid must face more problems than the fact of their parents are divorced. 
Another point to take into account is the relationship among the kid and his classmates. These 
days, some children can be very cruel, above all when they are between 13 and 17 years old. If a 
bad kid try to make another kid's life a misery, of course the kid's  pogress and autosteem will 
decrease. And it's also known that in some schools there is a group of kids who hit or threaten 
another one, who is weaker than them, and this poor kid may fall into a strong depression or comit 
suicide in very extreme cases; this year in Spain, a 14 year old kid comitted suicide since their 
classmates hit and threatened him very strongly. Finally, another problem to take into account is 
love for example, for when you are in love you miss completely your head, and if you split up with 
your lad or girl, if you are very in love, for sure it affects your progress and your state of mind. 

The next point to take into account in this essay is problems suffered by university students. They 
share some problems with school students, like the exams, which are harder than school exams, 
they are very nervous as well when the exams come, and they also have personal problems like 
love or divorced parents and so on. But I personally believe that they have less problems than 
school students, because the majority of people who are in college are more mature than when 
they were in school,so they face problems in a mature way. And at least, university students study what they really like, more or less, but for example, if a school student like only arts or 
letters, he has to study maths, fisics and so on. But some university students have to pay by 
themselves the university, for his parents don't have enough money to pay it 
or whatever. In addition, another problem is that the teachers in the university demand much more 
than in the High School, so the first year of college is quite hard for the students, above all if they 
were in a private school. 

So then, we have seen the main problems which cause suffering to school students and university 
students. It is focused in two and principal problems: the exams that  they must face, which may 
make them feel nervous, above all when they have to pass "Selectividad"; and personal problems, 
which might be one of the main reasons of  the decreasing of their progress and state of mind. 
These personal problems may be problems with the parents, problems with friends or classmates or 
problems about  love. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable for school and university 
students to try to solve their own problems (personal or about exams) calmly, without 
turning to desperate measures. 


In modern times abortion has been a very present and taken into account issue, 
and it has also caused a lot of arguments and different viewpoints. Nowadays 
many women choose abortion for many reasons, as some of them are too young, 
they do not have enough money to look after their babies, and they may think it 
doesn't matter to abort as the fetus it is not considered as a human being. 
Considering different researches, surveys and other people's viewpoints, in this 
essay I intend to discuss the issue of abortion objectively.

First of all, there are people who are in favor of abortion, and they consider that 
abortion is a right and parents can decide about their children's life. Some people 
would argue that the fetus is not a human being, as it has no social attachments, 
no identity, no language, nothing till it is born. The problem with this argument is 
that even though the fetus is not considered as a human being, it is alive, and it 
has been suggested that it has the right of keep on living. In addition they believe 
that abortion is not the Government's bussiness, it is not his choice; it is the 
mother's choice, it is her dilemma, her responsibility, not the Government's or 
anyone else; parents should have freedom to make a decision about whether they 
want to abort or not. And if the mother is not allowed to abort, the child will be a 
non-desired son, which it will be very bad for the kid, who will probalby not be 
loved. This point is rather convincing, but it seems reasonable feel that it's not the 
kid's fault, and although he is an non-desired son, he must be loved.

Next, some people might claim that if the mother is too young and she does not 
have enough economic resources in order to support her child by herself (as the 
father does not recognize his son or whatever), or she has been raped, she should 
be allowed to have an abortion. This argument seems to make sense, because it is 
probably that without enough money, being too young or raped, the girl could not 
support or bring up him. Finally, some writers believe that if the fetus shows some 
anomaly or mental deficiency, the mother also has the right to abort. This seem a 
not very logical argument, since aborting only because the fetus shows some 
anomaly could be considered as an unfairness, as a kid with some mental 
deficiency has the same rights as a normal kid for living. 

On the other hand, there are those who believe that abortion is a crime, they are 
against abortion, and many of them are religious people. The general feeling of the 
religious people is that the unborn child is human, and its life is valuable. They also 
believe that God is the only being who can decide about our lives and decide our 
fate. And the Christian Church consider abortion as a homicide, murder, because 
the fetus is alive, so killing it is like killing another person who is 15 years old, for 
example. This point is rather convincing, although it seems to be that it is not 
exactly the same killing a fetus than killing a 15 year-old child, as the child has 
identity, legal status etc. And perhaps the fetus has rights, but it grows within a 
woman's body, who has rights as well, and she can also decide about her body. 

However, there are people who are in favor of abortion in some specific cases. It 
can be argued that if a 12 year-old kid is raped and she
become pregnant, in this extremely case the kid should have an abortion.This 
seem a logical argument since she is too young and it is not her fault, and this kid 
may have some mental disorder after the rape, and if she had to support the baby, 
it would be worse for the girl and for the baby as well. Another point to consider is 
the opinion of those who believe that a woman should be abort when she is going 
to give birth a hemophiliac girl (hemophilia is a medical condition that causes 
severe bleeding from even a slight injury because the blood fails to clot normally). 
This could be considered a realistic perspective, since when the girl is 12 or 13 
years old, she'll die, because she will have the period and when she begins to lose 
blood because of the period, she will lose so much blood that she will die 
inevitably. But of course these people reject abortion in the rest of the cases, such 
as when the fetus has a mental deficiency, or when simply the mother does not 
have it as she does not like children or whatever. This argument seems difficult to 
deny.

To sum up, we can see there are many arguments both defending and condemning abortion. 
Some of them deal with the rights of women to choose whether their babies die or not, 
and others such as the Catholic Church deal with the idea that abortion is wrong in all 
cases, and God is the only who can decide our destiny. Others defend abortion in just some 
specific cases, as when the woman is raped or when the woman is going to have a 
hemophilliac girl. Considering all these points, one possible solution to reduce 
abortion might to be the prevention of the pregnancies in the first place. If birth 
control is available and used, and if women who absolutely don't want children can 
get sterilized, there will be fewer abortions. Another way to reduce it may be 
improve social structures and attitudes, and help the mothers with unwanted  
pregnancies and so on.







