
In contrast to several generations ago when people's and society's ethics were reasonable and none of them were influenced by each other, recently people are finding a new society full of worrying problems. Bullying at schools and high schools, domestic violence and terrorism are a few of these worrying problems that seem to concern almost the majority of the society. In Spain, the suicide of Jokin, a 14 years-old child, is an illustration of bullying at school. The most of the days, the news announces the death of an ill-treated woman by her husband or boyfriend or, even, the bomb attempt of the terrorist organisation ETA.  In this essay, I intend to argue, in my view, why these problems are so worrying these days and the reasons why they should be dealt with in our country, as far as this is possible.

Recently, I strongly believe that continuous and long insults and beatings might be increasing inside the classrooms. First of all, the most of the days we can see, hear or read, trough TV and written press, many boys and girls seem to be suffering from bullying in their schools and high schools. The attacker would show an impulsive, domineering and distrustful person and that's why they acquire bad manners with a child because of his or her good marks or a physical illness. However, this is not a problem which appears everyday in the news. There have been weeks that the TV does not announce any case of bullying. This fact does not make us to turn back to this problem. If schools and high schools do not deal with the parents of these children, they might commit a murder before the age of 24. 

My own view of domestic violence is that it is not considered at all. First, an illustration of that is many women might be not well-attended by the police. Some of them tell them the situation is not too serious. That woman could de died due to the extremely ill-treats of her husband the following day. Second, many attackers go to prison due to his bad manners to their wifes. When they are released, some of them would have learnt the punishment and the others do not who insult and beat to their wifes again and, even, they murder them. However, nowadays the most of these attackers are considering the seriousness of the problem and the might be going to group therapies to get the trust of their families once again. Beside of that, we must not forget many women are suffering from silence. I think it may be dealt with because everyone has the right of living in peace, with no ill-treats, beatings and so on and that's why I feel that the law might be tougher with this sort of problems.

I would maintain that terrorism in Spain and, even, abroad seems to be increasing more and more. To begin with, five years ago, while TV was broadcasting the news in the afternoon, we could see the terrorist attack against the Twins Towers in New York. Thousands of people died that day, which it will always be reminded as 'the 9-11'. Then, after many years, many bombs exploited in some trains that belong to a company called RENFE. Santa Eugenia, Coslada or El Pozo were some of the damaged cities. However, not time ago there is no signal of ETA. It can be it would be broken up and has no the power to follow acting. Would it be due to the dialogue between the government and ETA? That would be a good signal. In my opinion, it would not be like this. The government is the only, from my point of view, that is able to give up with the band.

In conclusion, it is clear for me that the three issues I have been talking above are the most worrying these days. Young people have not to be suffering from the insults of the classmates because it can produce frustration, shyness and cause a suicide. I believe women are still not well-considered at all at the households. The law must be stricter and to avoid the attempts of murdering women and, even, they kill to their sons and daughters only for revenge. An example of this is that a Spanish boy, whose parents were separated because of the drugs. The boy was waiting for her mum to go to school. His father appeared and killed to his son. Speaking personally, terrorism will exist for ever. I think hatred, lack of dialogue and so on are some the causes of this problem. To solve this problems people should think that these situations are not good for society. We should be more coherent because we are free for living.  Nobody should be hurt to each others.



Throughout history, terrorism may have existed. It can be defined as an illegal use of strength and violence against people with the purpose of intimidating the government and its inhabitants to have political and socials aims. Terrorism has long been a problem in some parts of the world. The situation has recently got worse because of the attacks in New York, Madrid and London and after have being captured Sadam Hussein, who is doomed to death because of the murderers he seems to have done. In this essay I will consider objectively different opinions of people whether the world is a safe place in the war against terrorism. 

On one hand, there are opinions which are in favour of that the world is a safe place to live in. Many people believe that the security has been increased all over the world after the attack to the Twins Towers in New York.  As George W. Bush, president of USA since 2000, points out that terrorism has been reduced, improving intelligence services. He argues that they have stopped successfully many bomb attacks when there has had some attempts. According to the opinions of the Internet users, terrorism has never given up with a democratic country so, at least, they believe that people might finish with it.  The problem with this argument is that it seems to suggest that people have a strongly security in everywhere when it might be only in airports because of a new law, which has entered last Monday, about what people have to carry on their handbags. Another argument which has certain weakness is that the American army has stopped many threats but not each of them. In other places, such as Spanish trains, there might be only little security. As some journalists said, a convincing argument would be that whether security would be everywhere, it would be embarrassing to whose have to travel everyday to their jobs or universities, thinking about what happened before. 

On the other hand, there are those who believe that currently, the world is not a good place. Terrorists are more spread and are trying to get more and more weapons. An illustration of this might be the headlines on newspapers which, sometimes, talked about the deaths in Gaza, the theft of 350 guns by ETA and the situation in Iraq, where its inhabitants are fighting for being a free country. According to Walter Reich, professor of foreign affairs and ethics, maintains that the world not a safe place because there is not any signal of where the enemy is. Nowadays, the 46 % of the people think that Bin Laden will be caught, in contrast of the 67% in 2003.  The White House could be considered Internet as an easy way of communicating for terrorists, through mails and codes without taking any kind of risk.

There are other arguments regarding the war against terrorism, which depend on the place people live. It could be felt that the countries which have not participated in wars before against Iraq would be safe. One of them could be Switzerland. Another possible viewpoint is that the secret services are those who put the bombs to the purpose of justifying a new war and winning money. Finally, some people believe that they may well live with terrorism the rest of their lives because they do not see any progress in finding the centre of this problem. It could be felt that, although governments could argue with the terrorist crews, probably, the world would be witness of another bomb attack in trains, planes, buses or the underground.


So then, this essay has considered the different opinions about the war against terrorism in our actual society. One of the main arguments in favour is the though that security has increased at high levels and that might make people safer. Others deal with the opinions about the world is not a secure place to live in.  This argument seems to make sense, because it appears more reasonable in terms of reality. Some of the evidence shows the titles or headlines in the press or TV about what happens in Iraq. There is another argument that deal with the opinion of those who think that the risk of being attack may depends on the country you live. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable to be tougher with the law and with terrorists because there still are people who do not feel safe in the world and this could be a problem that continues for decades.
