It was a lovely, wonderful, sunny Monday morning...i took my car after having a plentiful breakfast to be able to be efficient during a long and endless eight-hour day. I opened the car window...it smelt of Spring...at last, i arrived to the motorway and...curse it!. It was riddled with cars, busses, lorries, vans, tankers and all kind of vehicles. The fresh air was transformed into fumes. It was only heard horns and hysteria was taking possession of me...it was, in short, another one working day.
This is the same problem hundreds of people suffer each day: the traffic jams.
Those people who has to take a transport method like busses or cars to get to their jobs or universities, are forced to confront long waits on the roads early in the morning and, also at night when they are trying to get home after a hard working-day. This problem seems to be increasing little by little since people-in general-prefears to move in their own ways and comfortably.

	To begin with, there are a lot of people who do not really need a car to get to their jobs. For example, some people prefear to take it instead of living relativily near their offices because it is rainning, because they want to smoke while driving-it is not allowed into public service vehicles-,or because of their comfort in general. In my opinion, it would be fine if those people went to their jobs on foot. In this way, they are allowed to smoke, talking on the mobile phone-it is banned by car-, and even they are increasing their physical activity, which is beneficial to their health. With regard to this subject, i would like to mention some cities where people has the habit of moving theirselves on bike or even roller-skating. They are examples like Liubjiana (Slovenia), Amsterdam (Holand) or countries like China. Cities and countries  like those i have mentioned are perfectly  ready to move oneself  riding a bike. This is a fact which makes easier the traffic on roads and, of course it's healthier to people and less harmful to the environment. However, it could be argued that cycling or walking in the rain it is not pleasant to anyone, but, in that case, it is better to take a public service vehicle than taking your own car if we are trying to fight against traffic jams.

	Next, some people have the chance of taking a bus or a train which gets them near their offices, schools, universities or whatever, but they reject it to be in favour of their cars. Sometimes, taking the underground-for example-not only helps to make more fluent the traffic, but it is also faster and we haven't got to suffer from nerves when our car is not able to moves between thousands and thousands of transports.

	Finally, i am aware of people whose cars can not be supplant by another kind of transport because their jobs obliges to transport big material or objects which could disturb people in a public area, and also people whose jobs are, in fact, too far from their homes. In that case there is a good option to prevent traffic jams: every morning on the radio is possible to listen the worst ways to move-on, on account of an accident, an excess of vehicles or a slight damage on the roadway. So, we can use that information to choose different ways to get the places we want to.

	To conclude and as a resume, it is important to choose the best option to avoid traffic jams, this is, going on foot or riding a bike if we live near the work, instead of taking our own car. Taking a public service vehicle when it is in our hands, instead of taking our own car, or trying to find the road less bursting with vehicles.  I think these advices will help the other drivers, ourselves, an even our own earth.

      
      
      Terrorism is, actually, a problem which is increasing little by little since some years ago. Terrorists objetive is to achieve their political or religious objetives by pain and violence. Instead of terrorism exists  since several years ago, it is going from bad to  worse since the enormous attack to United States by Al Qaeda in September the 11th of 2001-and as consequence the war in Irak-In this essay i am going to discuss whether the world is a safe place or not.
      
      	Some people would argue that world is not a safe place because terrorism is expanding each day. In addition to this problem, terrorists try to use new attack methods like explosives into public service vehicles -March the 11th, Madrid- or crashed airplanes-New York,2001-.
      As well,terrorists attempt to make unrecognised arms or weapons of mass destruction to catch their victims unawares. It would be important to mention those people who are able to surround theirselves with explosives and detonate them to murder everyone who is near: suicide bombing.
      The argument that world it is not a safe place seems to be logical because is not possible to keep under control the whole world to prevent each attack.
      
      	Another possible argument is that world is, on the contrary, a safe place. War against terrorism tries,in fact, to break up any attack intention. This is the reason why, for example, actually is being paid special attention on luggages in airports in Spain. Maybe this safety measure is a little annoying to travellers, but it is really the only way to prevent new attacks.
      This argument could be considered a realistic perspective, since police has been able to descover some attacks before being comited.
      
      It exists another point of view referred on politicians. Wars involves a great  money increase to those countries which fight in a safe position. Some politicians think that war will not damage their  city, but it will provide them with a better life.
      This argument is not very realistic because there are several countries which are not able to confront everything a war brings on. And it does not  bear in mind either the posibility of an after terrorist reprimand.
      
      	Finally, there are quite a few people who think world is a safe place depending on some factors.
      It seems that living in countries as United States, England, or Spain-contries which were in favour of war against Irak- is more dangerous than living in countries like France or Italy which were not agree with war.
      It has been also suggested that main cities like New York, Madrid or London are less safe. Although, the argument that safety depends on people residence, is not too much persuasive because also ideologies influence on it.
      
      	In sumary, we can see that there are differents points of view about world safety. Some people think terrorism is a too large problem to control it. Another people think it is possible to avoid attacks by inquiry. And finally, few people think this safety depends on some factors, like political or religious values or residence place. However, terrorists, little by little, are exerting its willpower wherever they want. It would be necesary to fight against this new war which is, in a lower or higher rate, having an effect on all of us.
