
Actually there are some kinds of problems that worry the population. Problems like immigration, racism or domestic violence are increasing in our society getting worse in Europe and North America. In this essay I'm going to expose my point of view about these problems and the solutions that I think would be appropriate for them.
The first problem is immigration. I think that people can go to every place they want besides their nationality or the colour of their skin if they want to have a better life, salary or education because in their countries there are weaknesses in these aspects. Of course they must have their passports regulated. However it's true that some of them are illegal immigrants and criminals who come there for commit robbery and murders. But they are only few persons that don't represent the immigrants. My solution for this problem is the better regulation of the immigrants that enter in our country by putting more police in the frontiers and repatriating the illegal immigrants that have arrive here in boat crossing the sea. Other way is regulate the immigrants that have been working here since one or two years and give more working licenses for avoid the massive entrance in the country.
The second problem is related to the first problem. My personal opinion is that nobody can hate a person for the colour of his skin, his nationality or his status because nobody is better than anybody and everybody has the right to go wherever they want without be hated. Lots of people hate immigrants and foreigners because they think that these people steal the jobs that a person of the country can do, but for me this is not true because if the foreigners obtain these jobs is because they are better prepared or it is a job that nobody wants. My personal solution is increase the education of this people in especial classes living together with foreigners or working together to learn that the foreigners are not bad or different people. Other way is by television. With the publicity and the programs we can see black or Asiatic people interacting with natives and finally people will see foreigners like something closer and normal.
The last problem is the domestic violence, which is a problem that is increasing in developed counties. I strongly believe that the person that hurts his o her partner must be in prison because you can't mistreat the person whom you have promised eternal love. You can't pay with him or her your own frustrations because if you do that you're nothing but a criminal. Some of these criminals say that they have killed their partners because they love them. I think that it's stupid because if they had love their partners they wouldn't have killed them. The solution that I propose is to harden the justice to maintain these criminals in jail a big quantity of years for punish them. The police also can increase their actuation is case of violence or denunciation. Finally the criminals can be educated to integrate themselves in the society and maintain their marriages.
In conclusion, we have seen the four problems that I think are the most worrying these days. Other people have different opinions from me and all the opinions are valid. But I believe that in the future these problems will be solved. This is duty of the government that must give solutions like better regulation of the immigrants, increase the education for avoid the racism and harden the justice for the criminals. These are my solutions but there could be much more.  I hope that in the future we can talk that these problems have been solved. For solving these problems everybody has to involve in this and people must not live thinking that anything affects them. It's a social issue and it concerns everybody.
  


Actually one of the most debated subjects is if the world is now a safer place as a result of the war against terrorism. I refer to the USA's offensive against Iraq, the multiple advertisements that they have sent to Chorea and Iran and the mediation between Israel and Lebanon. In this essay I'm going to expose some opinions about these subjects and try to explain what the people think about this.
The first subject is the Iraq war. Some writers believe that this war has been useless. USA has concentrate his efforts in confront a country that is not an allied of Al Qaeda. As consequence, the relationship between Washington and Europe especially with the Arabic countries has been eroded and the terrorism has been powered. And of course, the USA has lost credibility and legitimacy towards his allies.
It seems that the USA hasn't done anything correct and it could be true. The war against Iraq has been a massacre and they haven't stopped Al Qaeda, but they have brought down a dictator and they have tried to establish a democracy.
In the other hand some people would argue that this opinion is not true. The Government of the USA says that the war is a counterattack as a result of the attack to the Twin Towers in 2001. Since this day, the government began a project to fight against terrorism. Their target was Al Qaeda.  They related the regime of Iraq with Al Qaeda and started the war. They have defeated a dictatorship and they have established a democracy. Their opinion is that they are winning the fight and the world is now safer. But they haven't totally established the democracy because the different groups in the country continue killing themselves; every day, soldiers and people die and Al Qaeda is totally operative.
The second subject is the nuclear threat of Chorea and Iran. The USA thinks that these countries are a threat to the world and they consider that Chorea and Iraq are inside of "The Evil Axis". Both Chorea and Iraq haven't move yet but the USA and his allies watch over very closely their activities. Most people think that is good to remove the nuclear weapons that threat the world, however this include all the countries. If the possession of nuclear is dangerous for the world, "The Good Axis" should look themselves because they have got nuclear weapons too. And if other countries are dangerous because they can use a nuclear bomb, countries like the USA are dangerous too because they also have bombs to use. They are a threat too.
The last subject is the war between Israel and Lebanon. Some developed countries are in favour of Israel because they believe that Lebanon is full of terrorist that threat the global peace. For they, people for Lebanon are radical Islamises that burn cars, put bombs and kill hostages. Other people feel that the threat is in both sides because as Lebanon has terrorist inside the country, Israel is a military strength protected bay some powerful countries that impose his law using power.
In conclusion, the fight against terrorism is focused in some countries considered bad, while other countries are ignored because are allies. Most of the actions are useless and for that reason the world is not safer than 20 years ago. Some solution could be concentrate in the real terrorist groups and their leaders, and destroy or avoid all the destruction weapons dispersed in the world. If these aspects don't change the world will be a dangerous place to live. I think that this is possible if all the countries collaborate. But this is too difficult...

 

