
In our present society gay people is asking for the same rights that heterosexual people. Some of this rights are to be allowed to get married - and adopt children. This request has been accepted by the actual spanish government wich has recently approved a law that allows the homosexual marriage. However, the Church, some political parties, such as PP, and family associations do not agree with this law. As a result of this, there is a big debate in spanish society. In my view, gay people should be allowed to get married and to adopt children, as I will try to show in this essay.

Personally speaking, I believe that homosexuality is rather natural. Throughout history the homosexuality has been presented in many cultures and it has been well seen. Homosexual practice was quite common in Greece and Rome. On the other hand, a majority of gay people has had to hide their sexual tendency trought centuries because most people thought they were sick persons. These days it is amazing that some psychologits think in this way. In my opinion, this is not true, they are normal persons that have a family, a work, friends... We don't judge one person for its musical tastes, so we musn't judge one person for its sexual tastes. I feel many people are worried about the homosexuality in our present society, but they don't think over the pederastians or the violations.

It is generally accepted that the homosexuality is present in our daily life. Cinema, television or magazines talk about it every day. It is a reality although many politicians are set on saying the opposite. I think that this political position, helped by the conservative Church, is a way of oposing to the actual government. The preach the equality, however, they deny some rights to the homosexual people, it seem to me illogical. They affirm that the homosexual marriage and to adopt children could finish with the family. This is a wrong prediction, I believe that it will always be families and it also could be new types of families if it is allowed to adopt children. There are million of children in the world that need and would like to have a family and we shouldn't deny it.

So then, we have seen that gay people demand the some rights to the others. Of these, the homosexual marriage and to adopt children are the most polemics. Our present society is ready to accept it although some people don't want to recognize it. We should think about it and realize if we support gay people in their demands our society will be more liberal and equalitary.

