
Immigration is a present issue in spanish modern society. The number of imigrants in Spain has risen to around 7% of the population in the last years and it seems not to stop increasing. It is the media, TV, newspapers and radio, where it is shown the main problems of the immigration in our society. However, it appears that there aren't real solutions in the short term to solve this isue of the immigration in spain. In spite of this, this year, the actual government has approve a immigration law, which regularizes the situation of many illegal immigrants. In this essay I will review some of the main viewpoints about the immigration in Spain.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of immigration. Many people believe that Spain needs more labour to put an end to the demand in works such as agriculture or construction. These are hard works an worst payed, because of this, few spanish people want to have thse professions. Others might feel that the movement of globalization is increasing the unequality in the world, and, therefore the poverty in the undeveloped countries. For this reason, it is suggested that the developed countries, as Spain, should to assist that people that only want a chance to life. Also, it could be argued that the issue of immigration can be an opportunity to build a new society more plural and liberal, where people of different races and religions can live together peacefully.

On the other hand, there are some arguments against immigration. Many people belive that a lot of social problems such as prostitution, drugs traffic, street gangs and so on, are caused by immigrant people. It is apparently true that many immigrants, when they arrive to spain, find the prostitution or the drugs the easier way to get money. However, it seems that spanish bands are who force the immigrants to come in this world to pay the sigle ticket to Spain. Another possible viewpoint against immigration is that immigrants don't get used to the spanish customs, so it is more difficult their integration in our society. It is generally accepted that when you emigrate to other country you must learn and respect the habits of that country. The problem with this argument is that immigrant people can't forget their traditions and go on making it in the new country.

There are other arguments regarding immigration, which depend on the degree of legality. Some people would argue that it would be acceptable a way of legal immigration. It could be possible to achieve agreements with countries as Rumania, China or Morocco in order to get the immigrants a legal work when they arrive to Spain. Other possible argument is that the spanish Government should coperate with the underdeveloped countries. In this way, the origin countries could make better the conditions of life and people wouldn't have to immigrate.

So then, there are many arguments concerning the immigration in Spain. The main argument in favour is the fact that immigration is necessary to settle the demand in works such as agriculture or construction. On the other hand, immigration might increase social problems as prositution, street gangs or drugs traffic. In addition, it has been suggested that immigration is reasonable if the governments adopt measures to make it more legal and to solve the poverty in the origin countries. On balance immigration in Spain could be appropriate to the economy and in this way we would giving an opportunity to this people who are in need of a better future.

