Inmigration is a problem that almost every European country must deal with. Specifically in Spain there are one million of inmigrants with documentation, so it have to be more than one an a half actually, including those who have not got papers. The truth is that there are places where inmigration is not a problem for anybody but there are other places where people think foreigners will let them without work; or they think they do not want their children to be in the same school as inmigrants. In this essay I am going to discuss the main viewponts about inmigration in Spain.

To begin with, there are some people who believe that inmigrants make our society grow up, so they are in favour of inmigration in this country. Many people think that race variety might be a way to build a world without wars. Moreover, foreign people might bring other cultures and customs and make ourselves mix with them. Some believe that is necessary that different country people live in the same place because this way, racism would dissapear. In case of Spain, the mayority of people believing in favour of inmigration say that they are prefered to be engaged because they do not say any work no and because they work so much in order to get much money to send to their families in their countries. This could be true because they say it themselves.

Some arguments against inmigration are maintained, mostly of them by racist people. In France, the prime minister Jacques Chirac said recently about the French inmigration problem that black people are dirty people. In France, nowadays, it is taking place a revolution which is producing that young men a women started to fight the past week, so it is being a complicated situation making so much noise. In case of Spain there are many racist persons who think they do not want foreigners to come to Spain because they think they are going to lose their jobs because of the inmigrant persons. This arguments might be valuable in any case but they are not valuable alway because it depends on the kind of person.

