It is a fact that nowadays gay people exist as everybody else. They say there are a 15% of gay people in society so this is not a small group of persons. The church seems not to accept this, despite of the protests. However, some governments are introducing new laws in order to legalise weddings between men themselves and between women themselves. Of this, some states in America allow this kind of marriages. In this essay I am going to talk in favour of legalising gay weddings as everybody can get married, and about gay people to be able to adopt babies.

Many people today don't understand that one man can like other man or that one woman can like other women too. There are different kinds of disliking referred to this. First of all, some people think gay boys and girls are some type of ill or crazy persons. In second place, we find those parents who feel that they are understanding and that they can include everybody's way of life, but suddenly they say "well, but I do not want my child to bbe just like that". Finally, other people simply think those "crazy" guys and girls will "corrupt" our society and should not have any wrights as everyone have to adopt babies. That is what some people think.

But actually, being gay is not an illness or some state of mind. Moreover, calling that colective "gay" is another prove that human beings need to put a name to everything. In my opinion, being homosexual is someone's choice, a liking, so if you like blue colour you must be called "bluer", or not? or if you like cookies, you and those whou are like you must be called the cookiers, mustn't they? This is such a stupid thing that if you think of it just a minute, you start laughing. Each person, each man and woman have likings and dislikings, and that is normal, that is life, that is what make us different from the others. In our society, we conciously apart some persons from the others, and make them rivals. This happens since we are children until we die. We make differences between races, religions, skin colour, etc. and all this make a world of violence and war. With this theme we find the same, a great percentage of people look down on gays, and they reivindicate to have the same wrights as heterosexual.

I think that people who are against colective gay have no reasons to say they have no wrights to marry them and to adopt children. In my opinion, that people who say gays are ill, are people older than the rest (normally) and they are more conservative so they may not understand new movements and changings in our world. The second group: those who say they understand but really they not, I think this people are dangerous because they say something in counter that they really think, and that is worse than saying directly "I do not want to mix myself with that colective and that is it". In third and final place, we find those intolerant persons who cannot include that everybody can adop children or get married, and that people are the germen of our society, they are people who say their opinions and with no reasons they do not want to change their point of view.

So then, this essay has dealt with of the subject of gay people getting marriage and adopting children as everybody else. Some people think this must not be allowed but I've said that they are wrong and why they are wrong. Everybody should do whatever they want without annoying anybody. One possible solution to get this might be to be more tolerant with the others and to try not to hurt them.

