

     Since the first of January 2006, smoking in public places, Duch as pubs, restaurants and offices, is forbidden; this is what the new antitobacco law establishes. S, which was the introductory of tobacco in Europe, regarding the antitobacco law, has become one of the most restrictive countries together with Ireland, Norway and Italy. This law, exaggerated for some people and fair for others, has created a very controversial debate that confronts smokers with non-smokers. In this essay, I intend to present different points of view about the new antitobacco law.

     This law establishes smoking zones in pubs, restaurants etc. It limits publicity refering to tobacco and hardens the normative of smoking in public places. In addition, it attempts to improve spanish citizens health, as it is a fact that the first cause of death in our country is tobacco. A recent study indicates that 38.5 % of the population agree with this law whereas 3.11 % are aginst it. According to this results, people should considerate that 25.8 % of people smoke, 26.7 % have given up smoking and 47.5 % do not smoke.

     Non-smokers, who are in favour of the antitobacco law, support that the law is going to improve society's health and is not against nobody's rights, in fact, it protects the right to health, which is reflected in the Constitution. Those who do not smoke also support that <Q>. Moreover, they answer to the representatives of the inkeeper sector, who believe that this new law is going to decrease the market share, that this is not going to happen due to the fact that the 70 % of spanish population is non-smoker.

     On the other hand, the spokesman of the "smoking club" criticises the Constitution by saying that "the law forces 6 million workers who smoke to go out for consuming a legal product that is being sold by the state. Furthermore, they consider that the law has created a situation which is not fair for smoking people. In addition, they do not understand the government's legislation because it seems that the state wants to reduce tobacco comsumption although it continues selling it and earning money with that.

     This debate about the antitobacco law appears to be very problematic because it confronts two sectors of the society, smokers against non-smokers; it seems that non-smokers are happy with the establishment of the law as they feel that the government is taking care of theis health, but, in the other hand, we find out that most smokers are really disgusted with the new law because they believe they are being refused due to the fact that they buy a legal product, which is now illegal to consume in some places.

     In conclusion, it is difficult to find out wich is the best solution for this debate, as there are lots of different opinions, but it would be grate if people respected the antitobacco law. If smokers assumed that tobacco is a very dangerous product that can kill you and that there are lots of passive smokers that do not want to put up with the smoke of tobacco, things will probably be better for everyone. Moreover, if people admitted that this law has been established in order to content the whole society, as smokers can continue smoking, but not everywhere, and non-smokers can continue with their normal lifes without contaminating themselves with the smoke of other people, everyone will be happy.


