
     The new points system for driving offences will be established in Spain before summer of this year, 2006. With this new system, the driving licence will consist of a number of points that drivers could lose if they make an infraction. I personally agree with the establishment of this new law , as I feel that with this new system the terrible record of traffic accidents in Spain will decrease and so the road safety will be higher. In this essay I intend to argue that, from my own point of view, this new points system is going to be very helpfull for us, as I think that the heavy loss of live in traffic accidents, as I said before, is going to decrease.

     According to this new points system, from now on there will be three main categories of drivers: "normal drivers", who will obtain 12 points, "new drivers" who are drivers with less than 3 years of experience, who will start with 8 points and "veterans drivers" who are drivers that have lost all their points and have got a new licence, also 8 points. I agree with this repartition of points, because I think that if you have your driving licence and you are responsible there should not be any situation for loosing your points. In fact, many people think that 12 points for a normal driver is not enough, as they believe that it is not fair, for example, to lose 6 points for speeding over 50 % or 30 km. over the authorised speed, they think that it is exgerated.

     Moreover, the law establishes that drivers who have lost all their points if they succesfully complete a course of "sensibilization  and reeducation" they will be awarded four points. And also that if drivers drive for three years without commiting any breach of conduct they will win back all their points. In my opinion, I think that with the new
points system people is going to change their bad attitude as they know that if they commit an infraction they will have to pay and carry out a course again if they want to recuperate their licence. In the other hand, people who is against this new system support that not all drivers have a bad behaviour and that is not fair they are from now on forced to recuperate their licence paying again and passing a new course. 

     It seems that the government is thinking in making two changes, the first one, the establishment of the new driving law, and the second one, the instauration of programmes about traffic education in schools, this way, people will learn about traffic behaviour in primary school. I personally agree with this two changes, because the transients should learn how to behaviour at primary school with the study of traffic education, this way lots of accidents will be avoided. In addition, people who is not in favour of the points system support that they agree with the idea of giving traffic education to kids but that with that change must be enough.

     In conclusion, before this summer the new points system would start to work, and drivers would have to behave good when driving if they don't want to lose their points and, in consequence, their licence to drive. So for those who are not in favour of the establishment of the law, I would say to them  that they don't have to be afraid or angry with the new system, because I believe that if they have obtained their licence and they have a good attitude they would not lose their driving licence. And also that they should be content with the new system as it is going tho decrease the number of accidents in our country.

