
     The Major of Madrid, Alberto Ruiz Gallardon, recently explained which vehicules are not going to be allowed to circulate in Madrid in 2008, in order to improve the air quality of the city and decrease the contamination that cars produce. I personally agree with this law because I think it is good to start doing something to stop the contamination as it is a fact that in the last years it has increased a lot and it is something that really concerns us. In this essay I intend to argue that with this solution the contamination of our air and our planet is going to decrease and society's health is going to improve.

     According to the law, those vehicles registered before 1993 will be limited to circulate in Madrid, driving in the center of the city will be forbidden for them, and in 2010, those cars registered before 2001 will have the same limitations. As I said before in the introduction, I agree with this law because it is a fact that cars contaminate our air and with the proposal of this solution, the contamination will be lowered down. By the way, many people is aginst this solution, mostly, those who work in the city center and need their car to get there every day.

     In fact, the law contains some exceptions for those who are against the law because they need their car to get to their work, or just for those who want to drive in the city center. Those exceptions are based on the extraction of the catalyzer of the car or the convertion of the car in a non-contaminating vehicle. I believe everyone should support the law, in order to fight against the contamination of aou planet and in order to continue offering possible solutions to avoid more contamination. Moreover, people who is not in favour of this meassure support that they don't understand why they have to pay to adecuate their car as there is a lot of people that can't afford to buy a new car.

     Madrid wants to encourage the no contaminating movements, increase in a 30 % the rail bus, develop even more the public transport and create a "bono-taxi" for those persons with reduced movility. I think that this meassures will facilitate the movement in the city center and that it is great that the government is making an effort to content everyone with this new law. I believe that many people is going to continue being against it, but I think that with all this meassures people is going to accept the law as they are going to see that it is also possible to move in the center of Madrid without the car.

     In conclusion, in 2010 everyone would have to be adecuated to the new law and they will be contributing to the encouragement of the non-contamination of the air. People obligated to get to the city center will have to take into account if they are allowed to do it with their cars or not, if not, they will have to make some changes in their cars or go by bus or bicicle to the center of Madrid. I think everyone should considerate that the contamination of our planet is something that must concern us, and I recommend them to participate with the cause of avoiding the contamination and why not starting with the proposal of the Major Alberto Ruiz Gallardon.

