
The legalisation of Marijuana has become a very polemic topic in our present society because it concerns a lot of different opinions and because the decision of legalizing it or not will directly affect a whole society. So, legalizing Marijuana is a social debate whose outcome couldn't possible please everyone. In this essay I will try to discuss the different perspectives and opinions concerning the legalisation of soft-drugs such as Marijuana.

The general opinion of people who are against the legalisation argue that if the government legalize this type of drugs the crime rates will increase and many youths will be able to obtain the drugs without any problem at all. They also believe that drugs are very dangerous substances that can cause enormous problems to the human body such as lung cancer or mental illnesses. Nevertheless, crimes are committed because the person who commits the crime needs psyquiatrical help. It seems reasonable to consider that these drugs can cause enormous problems to the human body, but it is true that there exist other legal substances, such as alcohol or tobacco that, in big quantities or without control can cause the same problems or even worst.

     On the other hand, there are a lot of people who are in favour of legalizing Marijuana, because they believe that the consumption of this drug creates pacifism and that is a stress reliever. They think that the legalization of Marijuana will decrease the crime rate if the drug becomes more available and that the need of an underground subculture will be eliminated. They also strongly believe that Marijuana has medicinal values. Although these viewpoints appear to be persuasive, there are certain weaknesses. First, the fact of decreasing the crime rates with the legalisation of Marijuana it is not demonstrated, so for those persons who are against the legalization argue that crimes occur daily, and that in many cases the cause of this crimes is because the criminal is under the effect of drugs, and that is why they do not accept this argument of those who are in favour of the legalization of Marijuana. Second, the argument of the medicinal values of Marijuana could also be discussed, because many people need the approval of the specialists, such as doctors or scientists, in order to believe that this type of substances are good in some circumstances for persons who suffer from multiple sclerosis or glaucoma, for example.
     
     According to the arguments that support the establishment of medical Marijuana for therapeutic use, some researches suggest that for some patients suffering the symptoms of some illnesses such as cancer, AIDS, multiple sclerosis and glaucoma, for example, the use of medical Marijuana have even had more substantial effects than some pharmaceutical counterparts. One of the problems seems to be that in most circumstances patients who use medical Marijuana (even under a doctor's approval) are still considered to be using it illegally, so they are afraid because they could be arrested or even imprisoned. Recent studies indicate that since 1990, medical Marijuana initiatives have received a majority of votes in favour in some countries such as: Alaska, California, Washington State etc. Even when nowadays the recreational use remains being a criminal offence.

     Europe is a good example to talk about the legalization of Marijuana, as there are some countries where it is legal to consume Marijuana under special circumstances, such as Holland, and other countries where even the possession or consumption of small quantities can be punishable up to some years in jail. In countries like Holland Marijuana is technically illegal but the possession of small quantities is not persecuted, and this type of soft-drugs are openly sold in the coffee-shops. Nowadays, the 49% of the population of Holland are in favour of the legalization, a 15% wants to continue with the politic of tolerance and a 33% wants a more restrictive politic. What I want to show with all this values is that even in countries where it is legal the consumption of some drugs not all the people is in favour.

     In conclusion, it is difficult to find out which is the best solution for this problem as there are a lot of different opinions, ones in favour of the legalization of Marijuana, in some cases because many people think that it could be useful for persons suffering from hard illnesses such as cancer or multiple sclerosis, and in other cases because other people think that the consumption of Marijuana causes feelings of pacifism and decreases the crime rate; In the other hand, those who are against the legalization think by the way that the crime rate will possibly increase and that many youths will be able to obtain this soft-drugs without problem. So, according to all this points of view, there is no solution that will please everyone, or al least nobody still has found it, so everyone should have two main principles in their minds, the first one, to respect other's opinions and the second one, to fight peacefully for what you really believe.
