
     In the last years, violence between young people in schools has increased considerably. As we see on the media, children use violence like a defence mechanism between their own classmates. This has derivate in a huge number of cases in which young people have been arrested by police because of bullying ok killing their partners. In this essay, I will try to find some solutions to this problem and analyse them from different points of view.
     Firstly, we have to consider the main characteristic of this manner, the education that children received en their houses. Following different studies of Psychology, it has been demonstrated that children follow every example that they can took from everybody, mainly at home. If one child grows up in a violent house, he will probably be a violent youngster. Basing on this idea, one of the possible solutions to this controversial problem should be to give to our children an education based on dialogue and equality between every member of our community instead of following an education focus on our differences, for example, it is shown that children that grow up with kids who have a deficiency like deafness or blindness are jointer with people with those problems but, if they are not used to live together someone "different" they could be cruel or impassive with him. However, some people think that this point of view is completely theoretic and that is very difficult to practice it and, many times, although children have got this education based on tolerance they get on with their violent behaviour. 
     Secondly, the education at school must be considered as another very important perspective to analyse the problem of violence in schools. Most people know what children do at schools but, in spite of many parents' thinking, not all of us know how they learn, I mean, many times the education of our kids is conditioned by the opinion of their teachers, overcoat in very personal topics like politics or religion, for example. Basing on this, we have to be sure of the ideology of the school of our children, if it is private, and if it is not that way, to have a previous interview with our kids' teacher would be a good manner to know how the children learn. Moreover, we can bear in mind that our kids can contradict what they hear in class if they are sure of their own thoughts. Nonetheless, this point of view could be a serious problem to the parents because when they notice that teachers are too influential to our children could be too late and, in this case, maybe we must to be more drastic and not only to take away from their school but also to have a long conversation to understand their points of view and try to explain our opinion.
     Thirdly, and basing on different researches, we know that the base of bullying and violence in schools is that children need to feel stronger than the other one. This is a form to show their classmates how cool they are. Consequently, we could considered that the education at school, besides at home, must be based on some different values, like equality and respect, and at the same time teach them to accept themselves with all their differences. In most of these cases, children that abuse other children must be assisted by their parents, their teachers and, even specialists, like psychologists. Moreover, an answer to this problem could be making different activities like journeys or plays based on tolerance and let the children to know different countries and ways of life and, showing that in their own city and countries there are many differences between people to do it easier to them. Nevertheless, we have to consider that many people think that these facts in schools have not too much meaning and they considered it only like a children play but, basing on some psychological works, we must to take in account of that some bullying manners could derivate in a violent adult and this "children play" could be huge consequences in future like bullying at work, abuse of women and violence with children too.
     To conclude, following these points of view, the problem of violence in classrooms could be eradicate if everybody base the education of our children education in some human values and rights, instead of fighting and wars. At the same time we have to remind that the children of today would be the men and women of tomorrow, and they depend on us to be a good example to their own children.
     
