
   In contrast to twenty or thirty years ago when gay people were discriminated by the rest of the comunity, some part of today's people has accepted this collective as one more of our contemporary society. During the last eighteen months, this acceptation has been extended to the Parliament of some countries where it has been approved a law which allows gay people to get married- and, maybe in the future, to adopt children. In my view, gay people should have the same civil rights that the rest of the world and they shouldn't be discriminated because of the sex of the person they love, but I have to admit that not everybody thinks like me and that is what I am going to argue in this essay.
   Nowadays, many homosexual couples have the same rights to get married that heterosexual people. This fact has supposed a great dried to those couples that live in only a few countries like Holand, Belgium, Canada and the state of Massachusetts in U.S.A. Since April 2005 Spain joins together this list because of the aprobation of a law project which gives to gay people the right to get married. This decision of the Spanish Government hasn't been accepted by the Catholic Church, which chose its new Pope days after, and other religious groups in Spain. All this groups signed a document that included a request to denay the proposal of the government and to impede that these new couples will be called marriages because they think that this word means "union between a man and a woman". In my opinion this is not a sufficiently big reason to cancel this law project because, in adittion to the old judgements they are based on, I think that the name of the union is not the most important of all but the fact that now they can feel legally like the rest of the people. Besides this, I consider that none of us have the right to give or to denay somebody the right to be equal, legally speaking, because we don't have any article in our constitution that expresses that capability but we have one that says that all humans are equal front the law.
   On the other hand, the Catholic Church considers that "any modification of the marriage institution must be deeply reflexed and request a big consens between the population." Benedict XVI, the new Pope, has added that the union between people of the same sex destroys the concept of the union and the social identity of Europe. All this opinios are supported by many other groups near the Church, like the Asociation against the abortion, that thinks that the marriage, or the relationships, between homosexual people is something antinatural. Personally speaking, I believe that all these thoughts are based on false information that some people received during all their life and they have passed this beliefs to their next generation. Based on many conversations with several members of my family, I realise that they thought that to be homosexual were like to have an illnes for the rest of your life, because they had heard that it was related with a genetic alteration, but they had not more information. 
In adittion, the approvement of this project could derivate in another law to allow the adoption of children by gay couples. Obviously this request of the government hasn't been accepted by many conservative gropus because they believe that to live and grow up in a "different" family, formed by two fathers or two mothers, could damage the mental state of the kids and it could conditionate the sexual identity of the children. My personal opinion of these arguments, based on a document published by the American Psiquiatric Asociation, is that these kids could overcome to that situation as they overcome the rest of their problems and it is demonstrated that they have the same probabilities of being as healthy and right adapted as children who grow up in heterosexual families.
   So then, this essay has considered that gay people should have the same rights that heterosexual couples because they are not different for loving a person of their same sex. Besides, we should speak more about this and maybe if we normally have dealings with gay people, we would realised that they are not ill but like us. Finally I strongly believe that it would be better to give all that abandonate children to people that are disposed to care them than let them to be alone.
