   Since the last twenty- five years, the discussion about the use of animals to improve human lives has increased its influence in our society. The use of animals and their products include some alternatives: food, clothing, cosmetic, biological and pharmaceutical investigation. In this essay I intend to argue some reasons by which I am against these processes.
   In first place, one of the items more debated is the use of animal's skins in the production of clothes. I think it is not necessary to kill an enormous amount of animals to dress us because we have many other options to make our clothes like synthetic materials, those that come from plants like cotton or, even those that are derived of animal but it is not necessary to kill them, like silk or wool. In contrast, many people think that this fact it is not a danger to the existence of the species because they grow in farms specially dedicated to the development of these animals to make clothes.
   In second place, another argument to consider is the use of animals to provide us food. According to this I can not give a radical opinion because I eat meat from death animals like pigs and chicken but I do not support the idea of killing wild animal that are, many of them, in danger of extinction, only to give the caprice to some rich people which can pay for this exotic meat. Moreover, the Universal Declaration of Animals Rights says that all act that implicate the death of a huge number of wild animals is genocide, I mean, a crime against the specie so, killing a big number of horses, leopards or ostriches could be considered a crime. This statement is followed by the vegetarians population, many N.G.O. and animal protectors, which allege that is demonstrates that it is not necessary to kill animals to have a healthy life. On the other hand we can see people that believe seriously that there is no problem if these animals are killed in control of authorities.
   In third place, the use of animals in cosmetic tests and biological and pharmaceutical products is another argument to discuss. Provided that this statement is about two different uses of animals, I would like to difference between them. In my opinion, we should distinguish between chemical and cosmetic investigation and the use of animals in medical tests. First, I think that it is totally useless proving chemical products in animals when we know that they are dangerous to people, like herbicides and cleaning products because they are going to damage animals too, obviously; and, in the case of beauty products and other cosmetics, I believe that it would not be necessary to prove them if the cosmetic industry used natural elements. On the other hand we have the case of pharmaceutical products. Considering some investigations of the Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Valencia, I have to admit that these experiments with animals are so important because scientists can not make the tests with humans directly and the alternatives methods do not give them the same information to know the effects of a drug.
   In conclusion, I believe that the use of animals to make our lives more comfortable should be conditioned, not only by the number of animals that must be killed but also by the damage that these uses cause them. Moreover, we should consider what our priorities are and that it is not as important to feed ourselves as wearing "good" clothes or to have products to make us more beautiful. 

