

There was a time in which all gays were considered sex perverts or effeminate poofs. That was the only picture that the media broadcast about homosexuality. People considered them strange men and women. They thought that gays and lesbians had an illness. Society didn't accept their sex condition, and they didn't stop criticizing them.
Nobody gives them any support to be stronger towards people. It had to be themselves who without any help tried to find their liberty.

Things have changed.....Nowadays we can see on television a lot of gays working like presenters, actors.....In general, people have accepted them, but there are so many people who insult them still and that makes homosexuals live in anonimity and do not try and face the problem. In spite of the fact that a lot of them have suffered too much, they are very proud of declare their homosexuality.

After their way full of  bad experiences, they have reached their position on the society, through a lot of  demonstrations and showing to other people that they could do any job or activity just like heterosexuals. People have finished mixing with them like another more.

They have achieved almost everything, first they could get married, although they haven't a church wedding for the time being, something wich they have had fighting a lot, , and now they want adopting babies, to be able to feel like two real parents. My point of view is that this theme would be their last peticion. They want having the same rights like the other people. 

The govern has been thinking about this problem too time, and apparently now they start to change the laws about homosexuals. Starting from the legalisation of  civil marriage between homosexuals, it has opened a door to these people to be able to adopt some children. Nowadays as much heterosexuals as homosexuals can adopt children, fulfiling all the requirements which are emotional and economic stability and the capacity of educating and bringing up the minor. 

In my opinion this law would be the best, because all persons need the same rights, and nobody has the power to take this right to these people. They are so worthy of this action like others humans, not being homosexuals, they are not going to be able to bring up these babies. This reasoning is completely false. I think that two boys or two giels together can be very good parents.

On the other hand is the understanding on child's side when he or she will see that their friends have a mother and a father, this moment is going to be difficult for parents, but they have to explain him/her that this detail doesn't mind in a couple or a family, also they make them see that they love him on the same way than other children.
This issue can be disstresing for children, and for this reason the law is in process still. And at this moment the members of parliament don't see correct that the shildren go to be adopted by the couple. Nowadays is allowed adopt children to single people, but not to couples, still.

Denmark, was the first country which accepted the right of adopting and marring between homosexuals, is was in the eighties. About the twenty of december, Holand legalized the marriage and the adoption. Other countries in wich let the marriage and adoption between homosexuals are Sweden, Finland and Spain ( since 2005).
England let the marriage between transexuals, whereas other countries don't let it.
Belgium joined to other countries mentioned and let too the marriage and adoption. In france exists a solidarity pact, a kind of marriage contract for homosexuals.
In Canada in courious, because the civil marriage is not legal but the church marriage is completely valid.

Definitely it doesn't mind how the couple is constitued, two boys or two girls can give the same affection, only children can be confused in the role of genus, but this not involve a trauma for the babies.
Therefore there isn't any excuses to not let the adoption, and more less the marriage for these people.
The only illusion to homosexuals is be abe to form a family.
