
For many years most people have smoked marijuana for different reasons. In our modern society there is still a big amount of people that smokes but neither by the same ways or by the same reasons.It appears that many years ago, most people used marijuana in order to relieve some kind of pains. Nowadays many doctors use it for the same thing but it seems that many people smoke it because of the seccondary effects that this plant produces,consequently there are people who is in favour of marijuana's legilisation and people who are against.

Many people are in favour,it has been suggested that most are young people.It appears that they smoke because of those seccondary effects that I mentioned before.It seems that when they smoke they are completely laid-back,they become lazy people because one of the seccondary effects of marijuana is that it makes marijuana smokers feel tired and they can't even think of moving anywhere. People who smoke and who are in favour marijuana legalisation like those effects and they would like to smoke anywhere,but there are a lot of difficulties,because although there are also a lot of people who are against for many reasons,lately the point of marijuana legalisation seems to be impossible to achieve because of the new smoking law in public places.Autorities have forbidden smoking(tabacco)in public places so that makes more difficult the possibility of marijuana legalisation.

There are also many people who are against marijuana legalisation. People who are against have some reasonable arguments:"If marijuana legalisation would be possible there will be marijuana smokers everywhere,therefore if a family want to go to a restaurant with their children and someone is smoking marijuana next to you,the smoke is damaging your children health".This seems a logical argument because noone like their children health damaged by marijuana smokers.And there are also a lot of people nowadays that have children. It also has been said by doctors that marijuana is bad for people health. So smokers are damaging themselves too.

Some of the evidence(the no smoking law)shows that there are also many people that simply can't  stand the smoke.It appears that they don't want to be etaing anywhere and have someone smoking around. This argument is rather convincing because most people will understand that while no-smoking people are eating they don't like breathing other smoke's,but there are people who don't respect those rules and only think in their own satisfaction.

Some researches say that there are also people that only want marijuana legalisation because  they want to smoke in their houses or private places but legally.This argument seems to make sense,because if marijuana smokers want to smoke in their houses or in public places created only for smoking,it can be reasonable. They are only hurting their own health and noone is involved if they don't want. This is why some people seem to believe that marijuana legalisation wouldn't be a bad idea but respecting everyboday ideas or most everybody ideas.

It seems that there are people who are also in favour but they don't smoke normally. Many people belive that marijuana legalisation could help to relieve a lot of diseases that need to be treated with this plant and that nowadays can't be used because It is not legal. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive it has certain weakness because it marijuana is legalized,doctors will use it in order to relieve those diseases but there will be a lot of people that use it like an habbit and smoke everywhere.
For all those reasons,nowadays it seems to be difficult to get the marijuana legalisation but it appears that many people are interested in an agreement between, against and in favour people,because both think it would be a great step in the medicin field and in the marijuana smokers life. 


