

       Nowadays we can see that the amount of cars within the population is increasing. In big cities,such as Madrid,most people take the car to go everywhere. This is the reason on why the local council has been doing  suggestions in order to finish with the traffic that hold people back four hours in the roads.In this essay I intend to argue what are the solutions to reduce the traffic in Madrid.

It seems to me that if people used more often the public transport there would be less traffic in the roads.Although a lot of people already use the public trasport normally , it is not enough because there are still a big amount of private cars in the roads diary. 

Another point is that people who are tired in wasting their time in those traffic jams,started to break the traffic rules,consequently accidents ocurred. In my opinion it is better not to lose the control of the situation.If you are in a traficc jam you can't do anything , but wait like the other cars,so it is stupid if you break the traffic rules because you can involve someone else in an accident. In my view, it would be a good idea if the police fined those that break the traffic rules avoiding accidents. 

Some people think it would be a more effective solution if the council spent more money making the roads wider. The council has been trying to repair the roads(making them wider),but actually it has been worse because those reparations have caused more traffic jams.In my opinion it would be better if they repair the roads little by little not all at the same time therefore there will be less traffic than normally.Many people think that some of the council solutions have not been very successful. For example, the delay's idea. The police stop the cars in a particular point of the road and hold them back for a while. It can be fifteen or twenty minutes. The aim of those delays is that the cars do not go in at the same time in the city. Some people find it illogical, because many cars do not have to wait in traffic jams and they can go in the city without problems, but it would not be possible if the other cars would not have been delayed. So that the problem of the traffic is still there.

It appears that the main problem is the diary morning traffic,when most people can't arrive on time to their jobs because of the difficulties in the roads. In my view it would be fantastic if  the different work compannies of the world would come to an agreement letting their employees arrive at  any time but this is impossible, consequently the best idea to achieve the aim of arriving on time, as I see it, is to repair the roads making them bigger.Most people think that it would be better if the council tried to repair the roads during most people holidays time, like in summer that many people go out of the city.

There are also problems like the public transport strikes. Most people think that those days are horrible and I am absolutely agree. Many of the people that,although they have cars, prefer to take the public transport, take the car instead because of the strike, therefore I don't know what is worse because people who take  the public transport have to be waiting because there are a lot of delays and people who take the car have to be waiting in the traffic jams for hours because of the big amount of cars in the road. In addittion, there are also police delays so many people never arrive at your destiny.

Summing up, I think that the society is very concerned about this problem because it is something that many people is suffering from. I also believe that the council should try to pay more attention to those problems and try to make reparations better and faster. As I see it the ideas they have been carrying on are good ideas except from the delay's one that I don't agree with, but I don't think that they have good organisation.. In my view if people try to follow and don't break the traffic rules and in addition, the council improves the state of the roads it will be easier for most people to drive without any problem.
