

Madrid has always been a city with traffic problems. Being the capital of Spain, the majority of Spanish workers aspire to come here and grow in their respective jobs. There can be many ways to fix these problems, and I am about to explain my opinion on how Madrid could reduce traffic.

Traffic always restricts drivers to, in some cases; wait in their car for long amounts of time. It can maybe cause huge pileups and traffic jams which make citizens arrive late to their destination. What I think that causes all these traffic, are due to all the construction sites that Madrid has around the city and the outskirts. I understand that some constructions are to make the city progress but all of them are not that vital, and if they aren't vital and you cause traffic jams that make people stressed, drivers get angry and the fluidity of the city minimizes to nothing.

Another grave problem of traffic jams, are the pollution that the pileup of cars produce. I think this is the biggest problem the city has. Other capitals like Rome or Paris have one day a week that cars are not allowed to be working. I think that is a great idea and Madrid should begin to do that. One day of traffic level to "zero" would give the atmosphere a break, and give the construction workers one day to work on the construction site.

There is another problem in Madrid. Due to all the construction, the roads in the city or the roads that are around the city are in poor state. With the solution I gave in the above paragraph, there can also be one day in the repair of the roads. This can be a grave problem for cars. It makes the accidents rate in Madrid grow because in roads that, for example, there is not a lot of lighting and as well the road is in poor state, accidents happen and people die daily due to this problem.

I think that the government should act in this grave dilemma. A human life is more important than spending millions of euros in making the city beautiful. The first thing should be to make better roads and better lighting for the roads and then from there grow to make Madrid more beautiful than it already is. 

Madrid has always been known to be a city with construction sites. The government should start to think and analyze how much they have spent on building things alone and how much on rebuilding or fixing roads. They will find that, building things has always been their main priority and citizens ask themselves, why...

The best solution there is in my opinion is to use the Madrid Public transportation more than your private vehicle. I think that Madrid has the best and most successful public transportation in the world. It is a great way to arrive on time and not be as stressed as being stuck, at seven in the morning, in your car looking over and over at your watch claming to the heavens, because of a traffic jam. 

Of course, like everything in life, every solution has some pros and some cons. For example, public transportation is a good solution, but if everyone starts using them, there will be pileups of people in the metros and in the buses and you would have to wait because there are many people with you.

To conclude, traffic is a big problem in Madrid and there are many solutions that the government could work on. Construction seems to be the biggest problem in this city with a great history and great class. Madrid has always been and will be remembered as the city "en obras'.  


