
Drugs are a major debate it the world we live in today. Drugs are gaining more and more attention. More and more people are using drugs then ever before and there are no decrease in the amount of drug users. One of the most commonly used drugs is marijuana. In today's world marijuana is growing and is looking to be legalized for medical uses only but that will lead to many other problems in the near future. 

Marijuana is the most used drug in Spain besides tobacco. Marijuana gives people the feeling they like and want but when it is used too much they have to use more of it to get the high in which they desire. It affects your brain by making the THC disrupt the nerve cells in the part of the brain where memories are formed. This makes it harder for the user to recall events and makes it harder to learn. Marijuana is addictive to some people. About 100,000 people seek treatment for marijuana use each year. Marijuana is usually smoked as a cigarette (called a joint or a nail) or in a pipe or a bong. Recently, it has appeared in cigars called 'blunts' which are larger and, therefore, more dangerous. Marijuana is a green, brown, or a gray mixture of dried, shredded flowers and leaves of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). There are many slang names for marijuana such as pot, weed, boom, gangster, and Mary Jane. This drug causes Timing, coordination, alertness, and performance to be affected in a negative way. Marijuana has THC in it, which is absorbed by fatty tissues in various organs. THC can be detected using urine tests and it will stay in your system for seven to a couple of weeks. 

Fewer then one in five high school seniors are current users. Some people who use this drug feel nothing but some feel relaxed and high. After smoking it users may get a sudden quenching for a drink and get very hungry. This is called the 'munchies'. Short Term effects of marijuana include memory problems and learning problems, distorted perception, trouble when thinking and problem solving, loss of coordination, increased heart rate, anxiety, and panic attacks. THC can damage cell tissues in you immune system causing users to be more open to diseases. To be able to tell if someone is high they may be dizzy and have trouble walking, be silly and giggly for no reason, bloodshot eyes and have a hard time remembering things. These effects usually end in a few hours and the user gets very sleepy. 

A big issue is being raised. That is the legalization of Marijuana for medical purposes only. The old laws would still be in effect. If you were found using it you would have to have your medical doctor's prescription for it to get free from jail or a fine. Still, a cop could bust you for growing it and cuff you because they don't know that your doctor prescribed it for you. This law has been turned down for the last two years in the United States. This year, all the old laws that have been turned down have been put together to make a great law. This law actually passed November 5,1996. 

Marijuana aids in the treatment of cancer, anorexia, chronic pain, plasticity, glaucoma, arthritis, migraine, and many other illnesses. The American Cancer society says NO to marijuana because it is not a substitute for appropriate anti-nausea drugs for cancer chemotherapy and vomiting. We see no reason to support the legalization of marijuana for medical use. Smoking marijuana is also not approved by the FDA for any illness. These corporations both say that they what a different drug to do the same thing but developing it will take an estimated 4 billion dollars. People what to know why some other drugs can be used like morphine but marijuana can't. 

In me and my partners' personal option we believe that it is wrong to smoke it or use it in any way, shape, or form. We have never used it and probably never will. We only have one body and we should make the most of it and not mess it up by doing stupid things that will affect us, as we get older. 



