

	

Nowadays, Madrid has important problems to control the traffic in many parts of the city. Every morning, when people go to work in their cars, were involved in a big traffic jam which covers the main part of the city. And this situation is repeated when they come back home. In this essay, I'm going to talk about what the government could do in my opinion to solve this situation.

One possibility is to build more parkings. Madrid has not enough places to park, and the pavements are full up of cars. This produces that roads of two furrows change to one furrow, so cars have to go slowly. Although there are many parkings in Madrid -it seems not enough- in a big part of it people have to pay to enter. As much as you stay in, you will pay more. And many times you won' t find a place to park because it is complete. In contrast of this, there are some situations when I don' t approve to build a parking. And the main reason is that for make this construction usually is necessary to destroy a park, a garden or a historical place. Also the noises produced by machines are too annoying, bothering the neighbours of the street.

Other possibility is to invest more money in public transport. Nowadays a private enterprise like "Metro" is controlling the main way of transport in the city. This produces a rising in the prices that many habitants of Madrid isn't disposed to pay. A little help from the council could persuade the citizens to use it. Also is necessary to build more lines of underground and more trains. In contrast, I think it isn't necessary more buses, because it also affect at the traffic. In my opinion, the best method is to use the underground to move around Madrid.

Another possible resolution is to close some roads at the centre of the city. This would force people to take public transport. The centre of Madrid has very narrow streets, producing enormous traffic jams which cover many kilometres of the city. The noises of claxons and the fumes from the cars annoy the citizen and the traders of the area. But actually in my opinion this isn't a good idea because there are not many buses and trains of underground to transport all the people who works in the centre. But in the future I think it could be a good idea.

The last possibility I propose is to create a new system -by internet, for example- where people can talk with others drivers and establish a method like a calendar where they accord that one driver has to transport the other to his place of work, and the next day -or week, or month...etc.- the traveller would be the driver. This is a very crazy idea, because people would not agree with travelling with a stranger. But exist the possibility of doing this with a workmate, or classmate, a neighbour, a friend, a member of the family...But this could have negative consequences: If any day one of both fall ill, the other arrive late to work. And if one hasn't to go to work and forgot to tell it to his companion, this could wait him in the street for hours. However, I think this could be  the best method of all I have proposed, but require good organisation. Inclusively might travel as far as four people in the same car.

In conclusion, I think that the traffic problems will increase with time, if the council don't do anything to solve it, but it is responsibility of the citizen too. Madrid is a city with millions of habitants and if we don't do anything, we could stay hours in a car to travel a few kilometres.



