
In last few years it been discussed if Marijuana would be legalised. Each country has taken a different measure: a few of them have legalised it - like Amsterdam - and others are thinking about that. There are three important opinion about that, that I' m going to explain.

In one hand, some people believe that Marijuana isn't damaging, and they request for it approval. They argue that if wine a cigarettes are allowed, Marijuana must be allowed too. It is so addictive like cigarettes, but Marijuana is a little bit healthy. Some experts affirm that it was smoked since 3000 B.C. and it has created a culture around it. An important point to take into account is that with its legalisation, the government could control the narcotraffic. This plant would be cultivated better, without additives and damaging substances. But it would be necessary to create a law that would ban Marijuana to younger of 18 years old.
Other reason to approve it is that some psychologists say that legalisation could have a hard effect on youth. The idea of prohibition makes them fight against authority and prove or buy just what it's banned. They are too young and suddenly start tasting worst drugs.
To conclude, the member of Parliament of Mexico, Lucila Artiaga, proposed two months ago the legalisation of Marijuana in her state, arguing that this measure will control the illegal traffic.
Although this viewpoints appears to be persuasive, it has no foundations enough. There aren't many authorities who support the legalisation. Also these arguments forget the addictive effects and the damages that Marijuana creates along the years.

In other hand, exist an intermediate opinion. Some people consider that Marijuana must be legalised but only with a therapeutic use. Recent studies indicates that Marijuana has some beneficial effects. It distribution in hospitals with recommendation from a doctor can help to overcome illness like sclerosis -reducing the spasms-, anorexia -with a stimulation of the stomach-, glaucoma, asthma-dilating the bronchus- or psychiatric symptoms. It could help to many patients to bear their illness and inclusively to overcome it.
This seems a logical argument, because the use of Marijuana would be controlled by doctors and their distribution would be in Government hands. It could solve some problems with treatments of illness like cancer and would not be so expensive like the present methods. 

Last point of view is that there are many people who don't approve this plant. It is reasonable to argue that Marijuana cause damages in the organism. Everybody is sensitive to develop a addiction syndrome. A few years later, a Marijuana smoker would see his brain affected.
In 2002, some investigators discovered that the main part of the brain where Marijuana affects is in the intelligence zone.
Ronaldo Laranjeira, scientific from the Federal University of San Pablo, Nuevo Mexico, alerts about the increase of the concentration of the addictive substance in Marijuana (named THC) which produces the development of dependency.
This points are more convincing, although they are so general, and denied any use of the Marijuana. Seems reasonable to consider some situations to accept the use of this plant.

In conclusion, Marijuana has several negatives and positives effects. The solution could be in combine them to reach one solution which permits some uses of this plant taking care of no harm somebody. But whereas there are people who fight for no permit its legalisation, or smoke it without control, there's nothing to do.

