

      Today in day there are many cars circulating along the city of Madrid, and every day that happens, and every month that spends the number of cars in Madrid it increases. To the credit so many cars circulating along Madrid it provokes that it finds numerous cloggings for all the zones of Madrid, and if to this we add him that occasionally traffic accidents take place between cars, which every time there are mas works for all the zones of Madrid, which provoke courts of streets, reduction of rails; all that does that there take place a major number of cloggings and desperation between the drivers.
       For example when I go to Madrid I despair when I am put in a clogging, because I am accustomed to living in people of the suburbs of Madrid that does not have so much traffic, because of it when I go to Madrid try to go in public transport, but often I go in car when I want to be going to buy things and it is at all mas for comfort, but for example when I go to the university I go in train though it is less comfortable and little mas is late.
      Every day you see since in Madrid cloggings take place at any hour of the day, for example in the mornings many people are going to be employed at car and this is because the people are very comfortable because instead of getting up early a bit and going in public transport little mas prefer sleeping and taking the car and above they want to leave the car opposite the door of his work, and also numerous cloggings take place when there comes the hour of going out of working and this is because they all go out at the same hour of working, of any form at any hour that you spend for the city of Madrid always you were a heap of traffic for the highways.that in car.
       Of all forms this one abundant traffic can have several forms of solution that can remove to end in order that it is great a fluid mas the traffic. For example in London they pay a tariff per day every car that happens for the center of the city, and it is a good idea that it might do in Madrid because hereby it would reduce the quantity of cars that happen every day and at every hour, of this great form people might not allow him the luxury of paying a certain quantity every day. Another way of reducing the cloggings would be to have tried to do the works little by little because on having done all the works simultaneously, it provokes that there have to be done courts of highways, which have to do to him detours, which cut the highways at certain hours, and this if it had been done little by little there would no be so many cuts of highway and there would be major available highways for which the cars might accede and have a few highways where circulating better. Other one of the things that the government might do is to subsidize Public transport and to improve his infrastructures in order that the people were encouraging to use more the buses, the trains etc. Of this form there would diminish enough the pollution that the cars produce to the atmosphere. The people should use the public transport but the companies should put more schedules in order that the transport goes out with great more rapidity.
       These are a series of examples that might be done in Madrid to reduce the traffic.        
       Of all forms it is going to be very difficult that in a city like that of Madrid the people arouse that has to do several things in order that there are no so many cloggings, because there is all the same to the people what happens with the cloggings because the one that goes in car is going to continue going in car and the fact that it goes in public transport it is going to continue going in public transport and being because to the people it interests his and not it of the others.                       
