
The debate about whether to legalize marihuana has been one of the most controversial issues facing our society lately. This drug is obtained from the leaves of the plant and it is called cannabis sativa. It is considered a psychotropic one, therefore is banned by the law. Though is not a hard drug, Marihuana is in fact consider even worst than cocaine and morphine, which are also banned for general use but can be prescribed by doctors. The use of marihuana is far more higher than cocaine between young people, and this makes it a really dangerous drug. However there are those who believe in it medical use and support the legalization only for medical purposes, at the same time, a part of the society think that soft drugs should be legalized, not only for it health benefits but also in a recreative way. Another position is that which is in absolute disagreement with legalization.

On one hand there is the opinion supponrting it legalisation only for medical uses. Marihuana has been used as a remedy for more than five thousand wars. It contained many health benefits that have been ignored since we started to use synthetics products, but it is well known that can be used to treat glaucoma and anorexia as well. It also helps in certain AIDS symptoms among others. The medical sector is where the legalization has received more support, though scientists don't agree in some specific points yet, and still have no definitive answer to the main topic which is if marihuana is physically harmful to the user.

On the other hand we find arguments against not only the legalization of marihuana but also for it use. It is commonly believed that it is a sort of doorway for hard drugs, a kind of first step. It has always been related to the marginality and governments are afraid of having an increase in their criminal's rates. What is more, this could increase the levels of addiction, considering that cannabis might be not psychologically but emotionally addictive. But above all there is the health damage. Illegal drugs are illegal because they are harmful. The risk would be too high.

In addition, we have to mention that sector of the society which support the legalization based on many different reasons. To begin with, it medical application is a pupose important enough to legalize it. In former times, cannabis had played a significant role in human's being history. It was originally used for religious ceremonies, medicine or just in a recreative way. Marihuana enhances creativity and it is realy enjoyable. In contrast, alcohol is a really socially destructive drug and it is not forbidden. If marihuana is easily available, the criminality will decrease and it also could have a negative impact in the great business of drugs. Legalization of soft drugs is not a dangerous issue, most of all if we consider it done under some kind of control.

All of these arguments concerning to legalization of marihuana seems reasonable. We have pointed the main ideas from different points of view, those who agree with it because of it medical uses, those who don't agree at all and those who think that cannabis shouldn't be banned for several reasons. The subject changes completely if we analyse it from the American view or from the European one. To sum up, we can see that this debate has not finished yet. At the moment, most Governments have chosen to forbid drugs, but it seems that things are not going to remain like this. There is one point in which all agree and is that, whatever the change would be, it will has to be done in a really careful way. Both information and debate are crucial.

