A lot of gay people are involved in long term relationships just as straight people are. Society has been divided in to opposite opinions recently. On one side there is a majority who think that marriage shouldn't be allowed for gay people, while on the other hand, a minority feels that this is one of the basic rights. The issue is really a controversial one, most of all, if we approach to it from an ethical point of view. Statistics and public demonstrations show us that people are becoming more conscious about this subject recently, but there is along way until we have a deep change. All though, I think that such decisions should never be discuss by nobody except from ourselves, there is a fact, which makes this dialectical discussion a real one, and this is related to the legal matters. I do believe that gay people should have the right to choose whether to marry and adopt children in a legal way or not, and be able to get into the legal system as a heterosexual couple if they want to.

Some political parties agree in this point, and try to find a solution to this sort of marginal situation in which the gay community is still right now. However, a big part of the public opinion believe that this would be an immoral feature of our own society, and also consider that children should never be adopted by gay couples. Based on psychological studies, some people say that it is not healthy to be brought up in family whose components are of the same sex. The opinion in specialists is once more divided, academic people such as sociologists or psychologists have all kind of statements for any kind of opinion. But these are not isolated arguments; of course these points of view belong to the most conservative sector of the society, which usually is influenced by religion and which identifies at the same time with specifics ideologies or even political parties.

Spain has recently approved a law allowing homosexuals to marry and adopt children. This legislation made of Spain, the second European country which accept this, being Netherlands the first, while Belgium allow same-sex marriages but not adoption. However, the decision was condemned by the catholic who think that this could be really harmful for the society. As long as we keep on permitting these abuses we will have to assume that the gay community won't be able to take any kind of benefits from the establishment, such as the social security or tax exceptions, among others, and this is a clear sign of discrimination.

It seems that we cannot think openly about the complexity of human being's psyche. If we look back in history we might be amazed by the fact that homosexuality used to be a typical feature. Only when the western civilization adopted christianism as the official religion, things changed forever in this matter, so as did our cultural codes in general.

In conclusion, it is clear from my point of view that this change of the law demonstrates that societies can be better and that we, at least, have realised that it is time to fight against sufferings and marginality in every way. I believe that in a short time we all be treated as equal no only in legal terms, but in everyday life. The first step is already done.

