      During the past year there has been a lot of controversy because of homosexual couples marriages. It is well known that since the Ancient Greece homosexuality has been something more or less accepted. However it seems that in the 21st Century for some people it is something unacceptable. In addition to this, there is still a question left to answer. Should they be allowed to adopt children?

	First there is a strong debacle about this topic in which moral, evolution and liberal minds take place. Should two people of the same sex, say either two women or two men, adopt children? I believe that they should be able because I don't think that just because of their sex they are different from a heterosexual couple. In a matter of fact, it is sad to say that some heterosexual couples aren't taking good care of their kids at all.

	Moreover, I think that the keys to breed and educate children are love, comprehension, care and discipline. For me these four things are the most important things for a good education of a kid. If two people love each other, are able to give him/her a good education, have the economical ways of giving him whatever him needs and want to rise a child, in my opinion they will try hard to give the best of their selves.

	But, there are also very important opposite points of view we must take into consideration. The oppositions to this matter are mainly the Church and the conservative political parties. These two entities hardly accept love between two people of the same gender. As tradition has said that marriage should be between a man and a woman, they tend to observe this without opening their mind. On the one hand our society is truly based on a catholic way of thinking, we can notice this in our feasts, common phrases and traditions, but on the other hand most of the people don't even consider themselves as Catholics or religious anymore in any sort of way. I mean, people don't go to church or follow the catholic dogmas. I support the idea of experimenting a social kind evolution, and accepting gay people as normal human beings, for they truly are. 

	However the main controversy probably lays in the belief of the need for a child of two main figures in his/ her life. These two main figures are constituted the masculine figure of a father and the feminine one resembled by the mother. But if this is taken to practice in every single family, even those of a single parent don't follow this stereotype of family, for they lack of one of these references. Yet they are not considered as rare in modern society. I believe that education is the key clue in order to finish with these debates.

	In conclusion I would like to add my personal point of view towards conservative political parties, which are actually the principal opponents to gay marriage and child adoption by these. There are some politicians that in their campaigns say they want progress and evolution for Spain, but they quite firmly argue that it is not ethical that two people of the same gender can be married, passes by the sad situation of these children that are needed of the love of a family. I firmly believe that a change for our future has to be in order to open our minds so everyone can be able to understand that love stands above all, social status, ethnic features, rage, beliefs and sex. If we get to this point via the education, I think we will be able to understand that you love a person for what he/she is, not for their gender.

	
