
	The Pope is the catholic Bishop, patriarch of Rome and head of the Roman Catholic Chuch and the Eastern Catholic Churches. Because of that he has a lot of influence in Catholic people because he is the representant of Catholic's churches and religion.He has many functions like political and social roles, and so on. The office of the Pope is informally called Papacy and formally called the Pontificate. Apart of his spiritual role, the Pope also serves as head of State of the independent of the Vatican City. Although the Pope lives in the Vatican City, he had not to be Italian, and we can claim that the current Pope, Benedict XVI, is German; Benedict XVI was elected at the age of 78 years old on 19 April 2005. they also have been Popes related with  Spain but not really spaniard-ones of the most know is the "Papa Luna"-. So, in this essay I will disscuss opinions regarding the figure of the Pope. 

Some Catholic people are in favour of that figure. They both believe in church and religion. They think the Pope is an important figure nowadays; he continouos with Christianity and his pontificate in the Vatican City contribute to keep alive that religion. Some of them go to the church at least once a week and they also get married there, and so on. From listening to his religious mesage, they also listen to his political opinions about drugs, poverty or sex themes. In addition, when the Pope  goes to a catholic City like Madrid, there is an important enthusiasm by those people, who support him; like with Paul II that had a special reception from catholics and in July of 2006, Benedict XVI, may be received similarly.
This could be considered a realistic perspective; it's important the religious figure of the Pope, but not his political role because he's sometimes against medicine or politicians and people should be free to do whatever they want.

However, there are catholics who feel about neutral Pope. These people believe in religion, in what Jesus did and so on, but, they are not interested in the church and vicars, priest,...but they are worried about health for example and they don't admit what the Pope say about not using contraceptions what causes unexpected births or illnesses as AIDS(very common in the Third World).It means that they are neither in favour of  Pope nor against that so, they don't mind the different roles of the Pope. This argument appears to be credible because to be not interested in that, doesn't imply to critizice the Pope, but the only different is that they don't follow the church, only their religion, and thay don't have to contribute with money.
However , there are non-catholic people who do not belive  either in the church or the catholic religion, so, they are against the Pope. They may belive in other religions. For them, Pope doesn't signifies much and they also think that he has an unnecesary political role; he shouldn't talk about grugs and sex themes. Why are abortion or contraceptions sins? This is one of the questions they ask themselves; they feel he shouldn't talk about wars like a politician, or about contraceptions because he is not a scientific; so,he shouldn't take part in political issues because it can't be possible. Others argue that  the Pope sometimes need money from the people (catholics normally). This people tend to relate the Church with the Pope(and leaders) in terms of money.

To sum up, I have discussed different opinions related with the Pope (against and in favour of that figure). This is a difficult issue to treat, as we can see, but we shouldn't forget that the Pope is an important personality who represents the Roman catholic Church, though there are non-catholic people against him or people that believe in other religions.
