The consumption of Marhuana has increased for some years. Marijuana is a drug of the called "soft drugs". This drug is consumed by many person types: from executives to beggars. It's a drug  easy to get, because it is relatively cheap. In several countries, their consumption is allowed in small individual dose but most of countries forbid its consumption. In this essay, I will discuss the different points of view about legalization or no legalization of Marijuana, analysing them.

To begin with, there are many people in the world who are in favour of the legalization of the Marijuana (In Spain, young people who defend the legalization of Marijuana have been duplicated in five years, according to a survey realized by FAD (Foundation of help against the drug addict) Some would argue that if Marijuana was legalized, it woud be more pure because it would pass sanitary exams which would pay attention to its quality. In addition, it seems that this drug has several beneficial effects to sick of cancer and other illnesses which produce in sick very suffering, because this type of drug helps to reduce the pain. These arguments seem to make sense, because, in part, its legalization would have some benefits to its quality and, at least,their consumers (who, although it is forbidden, go on consuming) wouldn't have so many problems.

However, on the other hand, as arguments against legalization of Marijuana, it could be argued that Marijuana, although being a soft drug, it doesn't stop to be a drug. In accordance with a survey realized by Brithish Foundation of the Lung, when you smoke three joints produce the same harm in breathing walls than when you smoke twenty cigarettes, so it seems more harmful than tobacco. Another survey realized by Imperial School of London with Saint Mary hospital affirms that Marijuana is responsible of 30.000 deaths in the United Kingdom. One of the main arguments against Marijuana is that its consumption is the beginning to consume of other types of drugs and it helps to traffic of drugs. These arguments seem reasonable to consider that consumption of Marijuana is very dangerous, not only for its own effects but also for what surround it.

Also, there are some who is in favour of the legalization of Marijuana in determined cases. In many countries, consumption of Marijuana is allowed because it seems to be reduces the pain produced by illnesses. In accordance with an article of the newspaper "La Vanguardia" (17/05/2005) three of each five pharmacists are prepared to give Marijuana to therapeutic use. This thought has ideas from two extremes: According to this tought, consumption of Marijuana would be acceptable to therapeutic use but no like leisure. This seems a logical argument, because it is in the middle of the extremes and only accepts the beneficial use, rejecting harmful uses.

In short, we have seen different aspects of this debate: arguments for, against and mid-point opinions. Consumption of Marijuana could be considered as beneficial for some things but harmful for other: It seems to be if it was legalized it would be more pure because would have exhaustive controls; however if it was legalized it could have an increase of traffic of drugs and attraction towardsanother type of stronger drugs. The nearest solution seems to be that the consumption was onl to fight pains because it is a medium solution between both extremes and several governments have already carried out this reform. This debate is probably oneof most sponken and it goes on in street now but it appears to be that it will never be solved because both opinions are totally opposites to each other.

