
In our present society there is a debate about if gay people should be allowed get married and to adopt. Gay community has been increased few years ago. For example, in Spain, there are aroung three millions of gays now. In USA are around ten millions and five hundred thousand of population is gay. In Mexico there are around five millions of gays. Taking into account this data, I will talk about different opinions into the population, checking them.

Homosexuality is the sexual relationship between members of the same sex. It is not an illnes; it is only a change in the psychical characteristics but it doesn't mean that this person was a mental ill. Homophobes have persecuted gays because they thought and think that gays are mistakes or nature but this idea is uncertain because it's a fortuitous change, a mutation and, like we know, thanks to mutations human being has evolved. So if people criticize this mutation, they must criticize every mutation and, so therefore, human race.

Gay community has been persecuted throughout history by people and many institutions. For example, Church burned gays becasue, according to his ideas, they were mistakes of God, counterproductive for the development of the life. Now, Church goes on condemning to the gays. Nazism locked in concentration camps, with Jewish people, gipsies and dissidents of the regime, to gays because Hitler, leader of this movement, wants to create a pure race. Other fascisms like this (Mussolini and Franco) persecute them too. Because his education, most of people have pushed away to gays and they have lived in secrecy. This is a psychical torture.

In addition now, being the subject to treat, when they are enjoying some freedom, it appears the debate of if they can or not can get married and if they can or not can adopt children. Many people think that they can't neither adopt children nor get married ecause a son has to have a "normal" family, with mother and father, because, according to his ideas, paternal love can be only given by two parents with different sex. This thought comes given by a bad education based in reactionary ideas. If everybody gave an education which saw homosexuality like a normal thing, children adopted by gays wouldn't be pushed away by the other kids and his happiness would be like others children. Certainly, the integration problems of this people are given by a bad educated society.

About the permission to get married, there are people who think that the marriage is something created for join two persons of different sex. I think that, undoubtedly, if you are gay and you want to get married in a church, evidently, they can not allow you because is a private institution and they have his own ideas and you have to respect them, although you don't think the same. But, if you are gay and you want to get married in a court, they have to say nothing because you are a member of a society and you have the same rights that another person. So, you have to respect his ideas in his territory but in common territory you have the same rights that them.

In conclusion, in this essay I have explained the different points of view about this subject, giving the mine too. I argue about the term of homosexuality like change psychical and not like an illness, about the persecution against gays throughout history, about the adoption by homosexual couples and about his possibility of get married. My thought on this topic is summarized in quote: "The word -progress- doesn't make any sense while there are unhappy children" by Albert Einstein. I replace "unhappy children" for "unhappy people", that is, we can't talk about a society which is progressing if his inhabitants haven't got freedom.

