
	Nowadays, in Spain, some people ask for the legalisation of Marijuana, a very well-know drug these days that has been useful as a medical or therapentic use. The legalisation of marijuana is a topic of heated debate the world over. In Holland, for example it is tolerated although the legalisation of marijuana has not happend yet; also, places like Australia, India, Nepal, Morocco, Afghanistan show a great tolerance too. So, in this essay I  am going to discuss different opinions related with legalisation of marijuana (or not).

Some people and scientists argue that it is important to legalise that kind of drugs for a medical, or therapentic use. The reality is that marijuana (as a medical use) has assisted different patients suffering from the symptoms of cancer, AIDS, multiple sclerosis and glancoma, so, that is the reason why marijuana could be legalized but only for that use.This argument seems to be credible because in twenty one century one of our most serious concerns is our health and the studies that are related to that; so, if we need drugs to cure or improve all related with illness and medicine it would be better to legalize them.

Moreover, there are some people (most of them as researchers arguee) that are in favour of the legalisation of marijuana in order to have fun, to go up in the social scale, and so on.Most of them see marijuana as a game and they think taht a weekend or a party without marijuana is not fun.They want to feel something exciting and different from the rest; they maybe prefer to have hallutinations than having a great time with friends. This is quite frequent in young people from fourteen to twenty years old more o less but unless for them is a convincing argument for their parents and scientists this is not a convincing argument because of the problems that drug could cause to these youngers so they are worried about it and they prefer not to have marijuana in a legalised way.

However there is an important quantity of people who think that legalisation of marijuana is not necessary and it wouldcreate many serious problems because if nowadays many people take it, in a future, legalizing it would imply more earlier addictions , and so on. We shouldn`t forget that this drug , in a big quantity can cause important problems like loss of memory and in the worst case , death. Some of these people are parents who want to look after their children in that aspect but it is sometimes very late to react when the have just taken marijuana or other drugs. Phychologists try to help and claim that this is serious and haaving it legalized could cause more problems, not only mental but also physical. It seems that this argument is reasonable because the people who take drugs don't see its effects and consequences but those who see things from a different perspective are more and more worried every day, because health is first!

To conclude, we have argued that there are different opinions/arguments concerning to the legalisation of marijuana. The main argument in favour is the fact that, marijuana is good for medical and use, but only for that. On the other hand, this legalisation could cause new and younger addictions, and for that reasons, some people (including parents and psychologists) are not in favor to a free consume of marijuana.

