Anorexia and bulimia are very common disorders in developed countries. In modern times, it is possible to feel differences between illnesses and food behaviours that affect in different ways developed and non-developed countries. In this essay I'm going to argue that developed countries are more affected by "beauty's illnesses".

First of all, I think that in non-developed countries one of the biggest problems is the need for food to feed their poblation, many of whom are dying of hunger. However some people feel that in developed countries this problem exists too, but in fact only a small percent-usually homeless people- has this lack. In addition to this in the third world a majority of people don't have enough food to feed their children when here people want to let of eat. 

Secondly, I feel that in developed countries a majority of people have covered their basic necessities which is not true of undeveloped countries whereas in developed countries I feel that people is looking for new necessities or problems like to feel their selves handsomes and pretties. And so this people make diets to become anorexic.

Finally, I think that young people are more affected by the media, and in developed countries this group of people all the days can see television, or is affected by their favourites groups of music, and in all type of advertisement is possible to see to "the model shift" or actress with their "perfect bodies" Some people feel that media is affecting to all people in the same way, and children of developed and undeveloped countries because they are more impressionable and because advertisements for example  are in all sites even in deserts. However I feel that in undeveloped countries they don't have Television, radios, mp3... in their homes like in developed countries. 

In conclusion, this essay has considered that in my view bulimia and anorexia mostly affect people in developed countries. Three main ideas have been covered: the first problem of undeveloped countries is the needy of food no thorough out it like in developed countries. The second main idea is that developed countries have all their basic necessities coverts. And the third is that in developed countries young people are more affected by the media with their "models" and "actress".
I strongly believe that developed countries should take the necessary measures to solve this food disorder. Firstly, they could force to media to show in their advertisements no-anorexic people. I personally agree with the campaign "Dove" with advertisements making of normal people. Another possible solution is to teach to our children the benefits of a good nutrition.
