Inmigration is a phenomenon which has been happening since a lot of time, both in Spain and in other countries. Indeed, Spaniards have been inmigrants when they went to Germany, the place where Spanish people travelled to in most of the cases, in order to get a job and send money to their families that was living in Spain. When Spaniards earnt an amount of money which let them living a little better, they came back to Spain, and so Spain recovered a high number of population who had leave the country to work in Germany which needed labour. However, nowadays, Spain recieves a higher and higher amount of inmigrants, and immigration has raised to around 7% of the population. These people come from a lot of different countries and continents: Afrique and South America mainly. In this essay I will try to point out the main viewpoints concerning the issue of immigration in Spain.

It could be argued that immigration isn't a damaging event. First because receiving people of different origins, and then with their curstoms because of the variety of cultures, can enrich our own culture and our habits. Second, because they come to work mostly and they work in jobs which Spaniards don't want, what implies an increase of our economy. finally, because immigration implies a reason of population, what let us increase our economics. These arguments seem to be quite reasonable, as soon as they show a cultural and economical improvement. The third argument is lean on a survey made by INE (National Institue of Estadistics), which says that in Spain lived 2.6 millions of immigrants in 2004; this number will raise and in 2015 there will be 11 millions of people. However, with these arguments those people don't argue anything about the possible consequences of immigration, like a rise of racism, or what they think about illegal immigration, and this last it's a very important problem.

Some people might point out that immigrants should be forbidden to enter in Spain, because they don't give us anything good. It seems to be that they argue their opossition to immigration (both legal and illegal) because of the higher amount of violent and aggresive acts since their arrival. Nevertheless, this argument, possibly, it isn't the best to say that immigration is damaging, as soon as every immigrants aren't violent. Possibly, there are some of them who can be aggressive, but we can't make a generalization, because indeed a lot of them want to sustain their family. Another reason it appears to be that immigrants come to Spain in order to meet somebody to get married with. However, this argument is a little weak, because there aren't stadistics which let show that most of the immigrants come here in order to this objective.

Apart from these opposite points of view (the first in favour of terrorism and second against it), there are some intermediate opinions. For instance, on internet appears an article from the newspaper "El Pa's" which talks about what it is the attitude of our government faced with illegal immigration. It is posible that the president Zapatero has the support of the UE to begin a comunitary program against illegal immigration in December with a endowment of 400 millions of euros. Nevertheless, our government let immigrants arrive to Spain if they hae their papers right. That opinion suggests us that some people, like government admit the arrival of immigrants but with some conditions, so it seems very reasonable.

Nevertheless, it seems to be that businessmen think that immigration (both illegal and legal) is a good idea. Their prefer in many cases engaging immigrants workers rather than Spanish people. The reason of this is that they pay salaries lower to immigrants who work the same hours than any Spaniard, and even the conditions of working are worse. If we analize this argument since an economical view, businessmen make more profits, but it isn't very ethical, because that way of working could be consider an explotation.

In conclusion, there are many arguments concerning the issue of immigration. Some of them ponit out that the arrival of foreign people is good because this is an improvement in some matters like economics, politics and culture, other people argue the possibility of immigration isn't a good idea because there are immigrants without papers, and in many cases they bring aggresiveness. And it is possible the existance of intermediate ideas, which are indifferent in this issue, because they neither defend or criticize the arrival of immigrants. I would suggest solutions for the problem of immmigration. Firstly, we should let anybody to go abroad in order to get a job if this person can't mantain their family alive in their country of birth. Secondly, a solution for immigration could be that government of all countires try to get more and better jobst to their inhabitant, and there they have to travell to other countries in order to get a good job. Finally, a feasible predition related to illegal immigration, like those who try to cross te Straits of Gibraltar to leave their country, although they have forbidden it, is the higher and higher amount of died people in the attempt.

