In the last few years, in Spain, like in a lot of other countries, gay people have the possibility of the showing their sexuality because homosexual life has been stopped punishing, what was habitual in the dictatorship, where Government was looking for gay people in order to jail them in prison. Gay people are being accepted more and more, although a minority of Spaniards still consider them like "animals" and discriminate them because of their different sex life. By that, there are different opinions about if they should get married and adopt children, because there are some doubt about their capacity. In this essay, I am going to argue why they should be allowed to live in couple (and be recognise as marriage in an official way)  and why they shouldn't adopt children.

Getting married is usually one of the main objectives of any couple, due to it is the official way to live with the person you love. This right is only allowed to heterosexual people, and gays and lesbians want to have the same chance. So, they request the approval of a law which lets them getting married and it isn't approved by the Government and the Church. Perhaps, the though of them, Government and the Church, is relationed with the opinion of "Gay people shouldn't get married, because if homosexual couples get married, the importance of Spain in the world will be lower and we will be the butt of jokes".

However, a lot of people don't think the same idea of gay marriage, and I include my opinion in this group of thoughs which are in favor of "they should be allowed to get marriage". If they could get married, we would remove every sign of discrimination and consider them like any person, and they could enjoy the same rights than the others. In addition to this, I think that other countries would consider us as a sign of tolerance and free love, without limits, and fewer and fewer the inequality between heterosexuality and homosexuality would give up being as important as some people think.

The other main objective for a couple is the possibility of having children, but this is only possible in heterosexual couples, by medical experiments, like artificial insemination and a couple can have children by adoption too. The gay couples only could do it if they adopt a kid. However there are also a variaty of thoughs about if they should adopt a child. It is true that if they want a child, they should be allowed to have one by adoption. But this theme is more important than the marriage, because this matter involves children too, and their behaviour in the following years, during their bringing up.

Adoption could be damage to children and there are a lot of explanations to argue it. First, if a gay couple adopt a kind, they will teach him, or her, and educate the child from the point of view of a man (if they are two men) or from the point of view of a woman (if they are two women), and so the baby won't have the same education than children who have a mother and a father. Another reason to say that adoption wouldn't be the best idea is the discrimination that the kinds will suffer during their whole life. They will be treated and dealed in a different way because of being son or daughter of an homosexual couple, and the children will make fun of them and they will be insulted by someting what they aren't to blame.

In conclusion, gay couples should be the same rights than heterosexual couples. By that, they could be allowed to get married and adopt children. However, I think that adoption could bring a lot of bad consequences to the child adopted, because people discriminate and insult both of them (to the couple and the kid) although it is said that we admit every changes of sexuality nowadays.

About these two matters, I believe that with time, gay couples will be able to adopt children and get married and being admitted by us if we try to be concious of the homosexuals situation. 

