
At the moment, the world has suffered great attacks by the terrorism. Thus, among the most frightful attacks lived in the last years, are important:  Sptember-11 attacks (the United States) and Mach-11 (Spain), since they marked before and later in these countries. For all this, this essay tries to argue, based on different points of view, if the world in which we lived is safe in front of the terrorism. First, I am going to remind you what happened in these attacks, to show the different opinions that caused and I will try to analyze each point of view.

In the first attack, the 11th of September 2001 in the United States, a series of suicidal attacks took place that implied the kidnapping four airplanes by nineteen members of the Al-Qaeda organization. Of the airplanes, two crashed into the ¨Twin Towers or World Trade Centre¨, one against each tower, which caused their collapse. The third airplane crashed into the ¨Pentagon¨ and the fourth, in Pennsylvania. In these attacks, 2973 people were killed.

As a result of the events, President George Bush showed his support the families of victims and maintained that he was not going to stop until obtain the victory over the terrorism to live in a better world, being optimistic. However, he admit that the Al-Qaeda organization is still very powerful and that the danger persists, so it seems that the war will never finish, and therefore the terrorism is not going to disappear, because of American president after the attacks, started ¨The War on Terror¨, that consisted of: ¨War against Afghanistan¨ (2001) and ¨War against Iraq¨ (2003, in which Spain participated, among other countries).

Then, some people could argue that the government only worries about their interests, do not think about the damage, the deaths and the destruction that an absurd war perhaps caused, Nevertheless, others think that we must support the government to have a justice, clean world of criminals and to take revenge on the death of all those innocent people who died because of terrorism. An argument in favour of this support to the government like beginning to a better world, is that in the United States now It is possible to be lived quietly, since the ¨Department of National Security¨ was created (the one control city's security)  and ¨Patriots Act¨(it limits some constitutional liberties). In addition, they put posters and loudspeakers in all ways of transport that say: ¨If you see something, say something¨.

However, this attack caused panic in the city and consequently, after this massacre, according to an article published in the New York Times newspaper, the citizens are pessimistic before the present society and this has generated more violence, since Blair Sohdi, that wore turban by his traditions, was killed alter being confused whit a Muslim (this is a example of than we resorted to the violence to obtain which it seems us right). 

The second attack, after the war of Iraq, the Osama Ben Laden terrorist and Al-Qaeda organization promised to take revenge itself on all those countries that participated in this war, among which was Spain (It is important to remember that the Spaniards were against that war). Thus, the fear of which this organization attacked again, became a reality the Mach-11, 2004 in Madrid, when blasts in four passengers train which travelled to the capital, causing fear, destruction and death. These attacks killed 192 dead and more than 1500 were wounded. All the citizens felt and still feel fear and insecurity when they have a train.

The relative of victims, interviewed by different television channel, criticized the government for not listening to the demonstrators and it caused that terrorist attack again. Immigrants interviewed showed their grief, since they arrived at this city, symbol until that of tranquillity and calmness, looking for a good future and they never imagined that relatives or friends would die because of terrorism (so, It is possible to think that they do not believe in an ideal world now, that already nobody feels safe anywhere and that therefore, we did not feel out of the terrorism).

According to a survey that I carried out a few days ago on a train of the Renfe in direction of Alcobendas-SS Ryes, the opinions on the security of the world in where we lived over the terrorism over are varied. On the one hand, somebody support idea that world is improving, because they think that the new security systems offer more tranquillity to us, nevertheless, Mario Vargas Llosa, a writer interviewed in Barcelona, considered that the new technologies carry out the Terrorism, talking about to the Nuclear weapons and the Atomic bombs created by South Korea. On the other hand, a lot of people are pessimistic before our society, since they maintain that the government is always going to attack based on their economic or political interest, without worrying about the caused damage. The people admit that from Mach-11, they are more cautions when they take a train and they feel afraid when an agent of security gets on a carriage (They think bad something will happen).


To conclude, making a balance of all which mentioned points of view, most people don't believe the world where we live is safe against crime, terrorism or violence, since we often looking for it when we need ¨justice¨ or because the society demands it. In addition, the war continues, since South Korea is already planning a war against the United States using nuclear weapons, so the future seems uncertain. Nevertheless, we hope things will change in favour all, that one day we win fight for the interests of all and for our own interest, since it's the way in which it would be possible to reach an agreement. Thus, It is possible to think that, although so far violence and terrorism reign in the world, the day will arrive in which the world get tired of so much violence and obtain eventually, ¨THE PEACE¨.

