At present time, our society looks for the solution great questions like: Violence, unemployment or the immigration. If we paid attention, everyday they there are the news on newspapers, television or radio on the increase of the domestic violence, the problem of unemployment or the immigration in Spain. That is why I have decided to focus my essay on the following questions: Domestic Violence, University unemployment (since it will affect me in the short term) or the advantages and disadvantages that immigration cause in Spain. What I try is to argue is why I consider those questions at the time of wondering what is affecting our society at the moment. Also I attend to propose few of solutions for those situations.

First is a domestic violence, which it consists of a psychological disease that takes to a person to attempt against the dignity of women, children and elderly, in his majority. According to the surveys carried out in the United States, every 15 seconds a woman is mistreated by her boyfriend or husband (which according to 32% is pregnant). Among interviewed women, 25% admit they have tried to commit suicide after being mistreated.

On the other hand, every year Child Abuse increases, where the parents are generally the abusers. From my point of view, the cause of this violence can be: Lack of communication, lack of understanding, Economic problems that generate a tense atmosphere in the family, etc. We must consider that domestic violence happens without concerning race, religion, sex, age or marital states, which seems very serious to me. It is very important to denounce the fact that we are mistreated, physically as well as psychologically mistreats (insults, critics, and punches) then both of them hurt us, although I am conscious that many people do not report the abuse out of fear or shame. What bothers me most of this situation, is to see how families destroy themselves, to see how a father can kill his wife and his children and to commit suicide too (this I read in the newspaper ¨El Mundo¨). I can understand violence more easily than at the moment my country lives, Colombia, as a result of the social decomposition that this, because there at least those that destroy your family others are. Perhaps at this point everybody does not agree with me, because it is also very hard to see that they kill a relative to rob him or by mistake, but it is more difficult to know that who killed your relative was a member of your family. I believe that there are solutions to this problem: Mutual respect, understanding, acceptance of each other on the part of all members of family, love and education (since I consider that an intellectual person can react better to certain situation than an illiterate one).


Another point that worries the present society, in particularity to young people, is how to avoid (finished the university career) unemployment. On the hand, according to a survey carried out in Spain directed to titleholders, unemployment diminishes after years from degree. In addition, unemployment the same does not affect all the degrees, therefore unemployment is almost inexistent for ¨physiotherapists¨, publicists...and almost surely for lawyers in ¨Social Education¨ or ¨Sciences of the Sea¨. On the other hand, to obtain a job, the academic file is as important as professional, so the best file will have more chances of success.

In addition to this problem, you know that the first job is not always related to your studies, because a worker prefers to accept the first offers to waiting for a long time for a job connected with his agree. Furthermore, I want to express my distress with the fact that companies, according to the interviewed people, take advantage of our inexperience in the labour world, forcing us to fulfil a day that is really longer that it appears in the contract. Nevertheless, it there may be people who think that it's better to accept the job due to our economic necessities or by independent desire to feel by our parents. I advise all those that are studying, to study with devotion and persistence so that the grades on our academic file is excellent and thus we avoid accepting job that, first is not relate to our studies and second, is not well paid.


Finally, I would like to speak about immigration in Spain. For me, more than a problem, this has meant great advantages. First, I would like to explain what immigration is permanent or temporary of the human population towards another country, whose causes can be: economic, political, cultural, social, etc. However, it is undeniable that Spanish population has rejuvenated with immigrants, since years ago one of the great worries of this country was that most of population
was old, so the future was uncertain. For example, while in hospitals the rate of birth of the Spaniards decreases, the one of the immigrants raises with notoriety. Second, in the labour an economic field, we have to admit that foreigners also work in construction, agriculture, etc. However, it could be argued that Latin young people when are members of bands like: Latin Kings, Ñetas, Dominican don't play, among others; they cause teenagers violence in the Spanish cities, when the commit illicit acts like: Robbery, murder, street fights, etc. Nevertheless, we do not have to forget that we are not all equal, and that young people like I, fight every day to forge a better future through study, with the purpose of becoming workers in the future.


In order to conclude, we have seen in this essay if we want to reduce domestic violence, we must be understanding and respectful. To fight unemployment, we must give do our best in the university to get a good marks and thus to have greater chances of success. Finally, I have tried to show the positive part of immigration, the advantages that foreigners give Spain. It is true, It can be argued that the people do not stop being violent for no reason (but in my view, every thing has been a time and trough the medical aid the people will cure themselves) that removing a good mark in the file does not assure a good job 100% (I believe that this increases the possibilities of obtaining it) and that because of the foreigners, there are Spaniards unemployed (I think that the reason is that the foreigners mean cheap manual labour and accept any type of work). I suggest that if we all try hard, we will have a world better!

