Problems that citizenship has to face in its daily travels through Madrid rest in three factors, in my point of view: one of them is the increase of traffic density, which is nearly three times higher than ten years ago, according to stadistics from D.G.T.
<R>. There is a sign of this fact within everybody's sight reach; many families that used to share only one car, drive two or three right now.

It appears that neither public transport helps to movility, specially in several districts of the city, where overcrowding and delays are quite common, as citizens complain about in newspapers, and other types of mass media, more and more frequently. The general feelings seem to be anger, frustration or impatience.

In addition, parking is generally considered such a kind of adventure in the town centre. Is rather doubtful that problems with parking were going to contribute to traffic jams. And the lime constitution of subsoil makes rather difficult, and not so cheap, excavation of enough underground garages.

One of the solutions adopted by the town Council is, for example, zone S.E.R, a regulated parking service, those frightening blue or green kerbs. Another tool that the Council uses to improve traffic speed are tow trucks: but, as the experienced local policeman O.G.F. agrees, these measures seem impopular even to his own partners, and presumably, a hidden way to collect money. As an example, official tows taxes for lift vehicules and remove them from streets were 80 euros in 2003. Only three years later, a citizen has to pay 132,60 if he or she wants to collect his or her car after parking it illegally.

So, it seems that the majority of citizens from La Villa may prefer real solutions for their annoying problems: I would suggest that building vertical parkings, as new districtis like San Chinarro are already planning, could be a viable cheaper option.
Another one solution might be reinforcing problematic bus lines furing rush hours. And finally, but maybe in most important place, trying to become civic drivers, lucky happy owners of a rational behaviur.




