	
      In the last few years terrorist activity appears to have increased, above all in the Middle-East. As a result of the attacks suffered in New York the 11-S in 2001, the government of the U.S.A. decided to iniciate a war against Irak with the supposition that this country was behind them or that it was helping the terrorists. The subsequent attacks to Madrid and London made many peolple think about wether the decision to start an armed conflict was the right one to take or not. In this essay I will show the different arguments that people use to affirm that the world is now a safer place or that it is not.

	Many people supports the armed fight to solve such an important problem like the terrorism is. Some of them argue that the only way to fight against terrorism is to give the terrorists a dose of their own medicine. This may be true because showing them that they are not on equal terms talking about the preparation of their armies and their armamentistic resources, might make them give up their task. Some others believe that a war is the most effective solution to eliminate those who want to terrify the world. Defeating terrorists by means of armed fight is, for these people, the best way to be sure that they will not attack anymore. Therefore, all these people feel now safer than before the war, and they believe that they will not have to regret more attacks, like those they lived in the past.

	On the other hand, there is a great amount of people which are completely against this position. They do not agree with using the same methods that terrorists use, above all because the most damaged are those who have nothing to do with terrorism, but that suffer from the destruction of their houses and, in general, of  their countries. This group of people prefer pacific actuaction through the International Courts, this is, arresting and judging fairly the criminals. In contrast to the other group, this one believes that the world is even more unsafe now than before the war in two senses: first, they feel that the Human Rights are not actually respected by the armies, that the same thing could happen to anyone of us and that in a war everything seems to be permitted;  second, they believe that now terrorists have real reasons to attack the western countries, as in fact they did after the war. In Madrid about 200 people died in a terrorist attack caused by the participation of Spain in the war of Irak. London was also affected by this kind of actions, but fortunately no deaths had to be regreted. This is the most extended position amongst the world population,maybe because of these lamentable incidents.

	But there still exists one more opinion. There is another group of people that, agreeing or not with the war, believe that the world could be safer in one way: after the war of Irak, and after seeing what can happen to those who use terrorism, many of them would think it twice before planing a terrorist attack. But we are not safe from the revenge of those whose country we have destroyed and occupied.

	So then, there are several opinions about the matter: some believe that the world is a safer place now, other people think that we may be safe from some terrorist organisations, but not from this, and finally the most common belief is that violence is not the way to fight against violence, that now we are exposed to a revenge, and that the Human Rights are very easily ignored, therefore, our world is now more unsafe than it was before the war.
