
	Traffic jams are one of the main problems that people living in big cities believe to be the cause of their stress, as an early research made by theW.H.O. has shown.The massive use of cars by people that go to work or to university every day, and also by the workers and students that come from the periphery, has led, in the last few years, to a great increase in the number of cars circulating in Madrid. In this essay I would argue which could be, from my point of view, the better solutions to be put in practice.

	First, one solution that seems obvious but that in fact it's not, would be to decrease the dependence on cars by the citizens. This could be done by the improvement of the public transports service and by a bigger participation of the citizenship, that should try to use buses and undergrounds to move around the city, as I think. This is a relation cause effect: the more people using public transports, the less number of cars in the streets. On the other hand, some people will argue that these kind of transport is not reliable because it is also exposed to traffic problems and almost never arrive on time, but, as I see it, if there where less cars on the streets, then the bus service would not be affected by traffic jams nor by delays. Nevertheless, not only the citizens should take part in the solution. The local governement, as many people will agree, should also do something to solve the problems of our community.

	A model of governamental action to follow could be the city of Paris', where there have been built five new parkings at the principal entrances to the city so that the people coming from the towns in the periphery could leave their vehicles, and start their way across the city using the public transports. In addition, new bus and underground stations have been set at these places. The inhabitants of the near towns of Paris, as well as the main parisiens seem to be satisfied and, because of that, I think that imitating this initiative in Madrid would be another good solution to the problems of traffic. 

	Finally, another action I believe could be positive is the extension of  "car-sharing". It is a simple concept that consists, as it's name indicates, on sharing cars: people who work toghether or that study at the same centre, elect a new driver each day, week or month. This driver has to take the rest of his coleagues to the point of work or studies, so that only one car would be needed for four or five people. I strongly believe that this initiative could very much help to decrease the amount of vehicles circulating on the streets, and as a consecuence, the problems of traffic in a populous capital like Madrid is, because the cities where it has been put in practice, like Berlin, London and also Paris, have registered a decrease of the 9% in the number of cars on the streets, which is a significant cipher. 

	To sum up, this essay has considered the three points that I personally believe are the better solutions to the traffic problems in Madrid. Encouraging people to use the public transports instead of their own cars, setting parkings at the limmits of the city for the drivers coming from the periphery and to promote the initiative of the "car- sharing" would help a lot to improve the situation of traffic in Madrid. As I see it, this can only become true with the participation of both citizens and local authorities.
 
									   
