


    Nowadays it seems that education is a very important subject for everyone because depending on how people are educated, especially children and teenagers (they are the future of societies) we could talk about societies that operates right or wrong. So, in this essay I will show different points of view about the education in my own country; what Spanish people think about their own education system.

    Some people might point out that the main problem of Spanish education system is that students both in schools and universities just study what they think that teachers are going to ask them in the exams. The majority of students don't worry about having a good education, it means, knowing a lot of things of different subjects, they only want to pass the exams and focus in what they really want to study in a future. It is apparently true that this doesn't involve a great problem but some of the evidence shows that this kind of students are really limited because when they begin their labour lives they are just qualified to do some specific works or tasks but they don't know what to do when something is out of their confine knowledge.

    Another point of view is that one of the most important deficiencies of the Spanish education system is the lack of teachers really qualified to teach. Some people believe that the fact of being a graduate involves the capacity of teaching, but if a graduate hasn't received a good pedagogic formation, possibly he won't be able to make the students to understand him. So it seems generally accepted that is not possible a good education without good teachers.

    It could also be claimed that education is not something that only belongs to teachers in schools and universities so we needn't always to blame them for the problems in education. This seems to be a logical argument because education does not just know to sum, subtract or comment texts, for example; fortunately, nowadays it is believed that education is much more. So seems reasonable to consider that there are many other factors that play an important role in the education, such as media, friends, and above all, parents. It appears obvious that parents should deal with teaching their children or teenagers some important aspects about life and inculcate them the main moral values.


    The two first points of view focus in problems of the Spanish education system from a legislative perspective because the solution to the problems exposed would probably be the change of the law. In the first case, it would be a change conducted to an education less specialized, with new "study projects", and in the second case, with reforms that improved the faculty's formation.
Although there may be some truth in these arguments it also can be argued that both students and teachers not very qualified, can form themselves better if they want to know more things, in the case of students, or being better teachers, in the second case. So is not necessary that laws changed in order to get a better education.

    The last argument seems to make a stronger sense because it extends the meaning of education to a social level. It seems really important because most of people could affirm that life is not only study or work, it is also relating with people, making difficult decisions, managing in complicated situations, and so on.

    To conclude, as it can be appreciated analyzing the three perspectives, it could be argued that a good education system, Spanish or any other, should be composed of a good organisation, legislatively speaking, together with the collaboration of media, environment, friends, parents...etc.

