      
      
      In our present society it seems that three of the most worrying problems of the world are racism, terrorism and capitalism. If somebody was asked why he cosider so important these social issues, the answer would be probably: "because all of them are the causes of most of the conflicts between human beings, that is, the most important thing to an individual is his own physical and moral integrity". So anything that would attempt on that, would be really worrying. In my essay I will show why people see their lifes affected by racism, terrorism and capitalism and I will try to explain my point of view about these problematic subjects.

      Firstly, I will talk about racism and to do that, I consider necessary to define exactly the term: "doctrine that declares the superiority or inferiority of a determinated race, proposing sometimes isolation within a country". According to that, there are people who believe themselves better then other because they have simply white skin, blue eyes and blond hair, for example. It could sounds like a nosense, but it is true. We can find a clear example of this kind of racism in Nazism principles and it was one of the causes of the Second World War. Furthermore, this issue is very related with another one: the religion. We usually tent to associate a race with a religion, for instance, if we meet a Moroccan we suppose that he is Muslim. That has been the cause of many wars too. So as we can see, racism has had and today still has tragic and terrible consecuences. However, somebody could say that the mere fact of being a racist does not involve being a murder or a terrorist because they could have racist ideas and needn't to kill or hurt someone. Though there were people who were racist in theory but not in practise, they wouldn't be, in my opinion better then others who kill because in short, they would be supporting or justifying the death of an innocent. 

      An other point is the terrorism, clearly related with the previous issue. Terrorism, unfortunately is a part else of life in many countries of the world, it is the case areas like Irak, Israel,Colombia and particularly in our contry, Spain, the terrorism group ETA continues killing threatening and scaring people. Terrorism can be caused by different reasons: political ideas, economic interests, historical or ideological reasons and so on. But I personally think that no reason can justify so many deaths, so many orphan children and so many houses, streets or even towns destroyed. Nevertheless, there are people who believe that violence sometimes is necessary to solve some kind of problems, but I strongly believe that violence is a great problem itself, so it is wrong to think that a problem could be solve by another problem. 

      Finally, the third social issue that I will discuss is capitalism. My own view is that this is the most serious over the two others. It could seem that racism and terrorism cause more deaths or have tragic consecuences. But if we analyse this carefully we will realize that unfortunatelly most of the things in the world are moved or motivated by the money. Money give us power, and there are people who are able to do  incredible things to get this power, and the more they have, the more they want. This is the case of some presidents of countries like USA, the first world power. It seems that its president has a principal purpose: to get more and more power through a petroleum that neither below him and no matter if this purpose involve and international conflict and even the peace of the world. I know that a egalitarian society is an utopian, because so that some people can live confortably other people have to live less unconfortably. However the contrasts are so big that there are people who die of hunger and other people who do not know what to do  with so much money. A great solution to reduce this contrast is the solidarity. 
      So then, we have seen that racism, terrorism and capitalism are three negative aspects of the societies that we have to take into account, because all of them are the causes of many of both international and national conflicts and even personal conflicts.



