
          There are in our present society many issues that strongly worry the Spanish government and also everybody who live in Spain. In my view, three of the most serious problems are: domestic violence, whose number of victims has increased in the last years, in spite of the fact that a new law about it has been approved; immigration, the amount of immigrants who die trying to reach Spanish coasts and also the ways to get legal documentation and, finally, the high cost of living, that worries principally young people, since it is impossible for them to get a house with the low salaries they earn. In this essay I am going to develop these three important topics, giving my own opinion about them and also adding some solutions that maybe could solve them or, at least, trying it.
          First of all, domestic violence (against women, they are victims in most cases) is something that, in my opinion, can not be understood. It makes me wonder: How can a man kill the woman who supposedly is in love with? Numerous sources say that during 2006 fifty-nine woman have been murdered by their husband or sentimental partner. And also if we look at 1999,...2005 the figures are similar. But I think that the sad part of this problem is that the figures do not surprise us. Why? Because we are seeing this kind of notices every week on TV, newspapers, etc. We are finding it familiar since nowadays everybody knows someone who is mistreated by her husband or something similar. This situation is many times caused by jealously or simply because the man has had a bad day and he pays it insulting his wife o even hitting her. But why these mistreated women stand this situation? As I have read in some notices, they put up with it many times for their children or just because they love their partner. Other times it is due just to fear, because they are threatened. I recommend these women that, although it is difficult, do not be frightened and acting on time, reporting their situation to the police, avoiding a worse situation.
         The second topic I am going to develop is immigration because in my opinion is a very important factor on which depends the Spanish population. For hundreds of years thousands of people have emigrated from their countries because of many reasons: work, economy, politics, etc. Nowadays in Spain the population is being increased by these immigrants (from Eastern Europe, South America and Africa in most cases) who come here to look for a better job, to give their children a better education and, summarising, to have better conditions of life. But not for all of them is easy coming to Spain. Many immigrants who come here by 'pateras' or 'cayucos' (over all from America) die trying to reach Spanish coasts or they arrive in very bad conditions because they can not afford another way of travelling or they do not have the legal documentation, which is, in addition, very difficult to get. From my point of view, immigration is something very positive for this society where there are still lots of people with racist minds. Thanked to immigration we know other cultures, live with them and share some of their costumes. Personally speaking, I disagree to people who think that immigrants come here to  'steal' our jobs or something like that. Instead of it, they do those jobs that Spanish people do not want.
        Finally I am going to explain briefly the issue of the cost of living, which specially affects young people and students. In the last years prices of housing (all kinds: apartments, flats, etc) have substantially increased, owing to a higher demand of housing and also because invertors who buy a house ten years ago (much cheaper than now) decide to sell them now (much more expensive). As I am concerned, if the cost of living does not decrease, it is almost impossible for us to buy a house. Moreover, we have to take into account the low salaries which are earned today in Spain, etc. I personally feel that this could be solved, first, by augmenting our salaries or reducing these high prices, offering more flats to hire, not only to buy and finally, giving us more possibilities of having a house with official protection. 
      To conclude, I have chosen developing these three topics because I think they are very important nowadays to our society and I think they need an urgent solution. Summarising, domestic violence should be almost eliminated, immigrants should have better possibilities to come into Spain legally and the cost of living should be urgently reduced.






