
Nowadays in Spain, the general opinion about education system is focused from many different perspectives. It is clear that education is one of the main topics that matters in a society; it has not only importance in the Government (Education Ministry and other authorities) but also for students, parents, parents associations, Church, etc. The L.O.G.S.E (Ley Orgánica de Ordenación del Sistema Educativo), the law that is in force now in Spain is based on a voluntary education for children from 0-6 years old, an obligatory education from six years old to sixteen, divided in Primary Education (from six to twelve) and E.S.O (Secondary Obligatory Education, until sixteen years old) and a complementary education, as Bachillerato, Profesional Formation and, finally, University. However, it is expected the implantation of a new law (L.O.E), similar to the rest of Education laws in European Union. In this essay I will try to point out some different and contrary arguments that concern this Spanish system.

According to Students Syndicate, this system should change principally in University ambit. To accede to university, students must do a test of admittance (Selectividad), which consists in six exams (of the subjects they have coursed in bachillerato) made in three days. Their access to university depends on these marks and also their marks in Bachillerato. The general view in this syndicate is that the life of a student should not depend on these three days of Selectividad, so they ask for the direct access to university when they finish bachillerato instead of it. They claim that university might also change in different aspects, for instance, improving its equipment (libraries, etc.), increasing the posts, giving more budgets to public university and so eliminating the contribution of finance for private universities. With regard to exams, they ask for an automatic repetition of the exam if it is failed by more than the 40% of the class and the elaboration of an exams calendar between students and teachers, regulated by the government.

In the case of the Church, its members are against the part of the system that establishes the elimination of the subject of religion in public schools, imparting it only in private religious and private ones. According to Juan Souto Coelho, member of Social Institute 'León XIII' (an association to expand the doctrine of the Church) believes that the problem in Spanish education is not the subject of religion, but the ideological and politic pressure of the government, who tries to solve it by condemning the religion.
Pedro Leiva, religion teacher and father of two pupils, is also against that. According to him, a huge percent of pupils in public school received religion education by a voluntary way. For this reason he maintains that it is unnecessary or even absurd eliminate it, since many parents can not afford a private education for their children.
A social worker, Miguel U.E, seems to feel that religion is not synonymous of catechize. Then he claims that the subject of religion imparted in schools make a careful study of the Christian faith, but not studying it as a believer.  

On other hand, a recent study of the O.C.D.E (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and development) states that a 30% of students do not finish their secondary education, a very higher percent if we compare Spain with the rest of European Union. The president of C.E.A.PA (Confederación española de asociaciones de padres y alumnos), Lola Abelló, pointed out that, in Spain, there have been a very little inversion in education and human resources and defended an education with more individuality.

To conclude, there are many opposite arguments which concern the present education system in Spain, fixed in most cases in social and religious way. One reasonable solution could be giving more motivation to study, reducing the failure in school; continuing having religion in school in a voluntary way and giving the students some things they ask for. If not, the situation will get worse in the future.  
