	       
       It is said that the problems Spanish society is facing at this moment are not the same as the ones that worried citizens a decade ago. Society is constantly evolving, by the addition of new members, new technologies, and new events that produce new ways of thinking, new points of view; and also new issues that must be dealt with. If you start asking people on streets what are the main problems they encounter these days, they will probably answer many different things, such as poverty or the high levels of crime, immigration, unemployment, and so on. The Spanish C.I.S., in its last survey has stated that the major issues people mentioned more often were joblessness (46.8 %), immigration (35.9 %), terrorism (26.9 %), and unsafety (20.9 %). In this essay I intend to argue that, in my opinion, the three principal issues our society must confront are poverty, crime, and immigration (notice that these matters don't seem quite recent, and, in fact, they aren't). I chose not to deal with terrorism because I think right know it's not as important in Spain as the other items. 
	
	In first place we should focus on poverty, which I strongly feel is one of the most important problems in any society, even the richer ones. At this moment, Spain seems to have a pretty low pauperism rate, compared with third world countries. However, we all can't avoid taking responsibility in this subject. As long as there's a single person struggling to survive day after day in very poor conditions, we have a problem. And if we can't deal with this problem domestically, we cannot expect to eradicate it from the face of Earth. Someone could argue that, these days, poverty only affects a little proportion of Spanish citizens; therefore it's not a problem of society as a whole. Well, I don't think that nearly a 20% of the population is a small percentage of people (just about 8.500.000 individuals). We shouldn't forget to mention that unemployment is perhaps one of the biggest causes of this phenomenon; if someone loses his/her job, and is not able to get another one, nor receives help from anybody, this person will probably become poor. So joblessness could be considered for our purpose into the greater issue of poverty.

	Another matter that in many cases has to do with poverty, and certainly concerns a lot of people, is criminality (I am talking about crime that we can see in our streets, such as robberies, burglaries, and so on). It is indubitable that crime leads us to insecurity. An important number of citizens live with fear, and we cannot forget about it. There are lots of sources of crime, and studying each and every one of them would exceed the limits of this essay. It is widely believed that perhaps, at this moment, the main two reasons behind criminality are pauperism, as well as immigration. I think that this is only partially true. Great deals of immigrants tend to be people without resources, and that could be the principal reason behind the high level of criminality among these persons. Nevertheless, we shouldn't blame them all for the actions of a few. If truth be told, we should change our point of view; we shouldn't be making distinctions all the time between Spanish and foreign criminals. 

	Finally, some people seem to believe that immigration is not an important cause of worry right know. They think Spain can accept lots and lots of people, and all barriers should be lifted, so that we could live as "brothers". Well, I often try to think that way, but the way things are right know compels us to avoid those utopian thoughts. I'm of the opinion that the country has a serious problem regarding immigration. I think that the problem is not the quantity of foreigners living here right now (legal or illegal ones), but the prospect of millions and millions coming. Although I'm not quite sure if they will "destroy" the Spanish economy (as the conservative public seems to think), we should take into account the social clash that could be created as a result of this. If there is already a great dose of racism and intolerance, think about what will happen in the not-so-distant future. Nevertheless, I think Spain should make an effort trying to receive as many persons as the State's structure can afford to admit, just for charity. Besides from that, mixture of cultures has always had positive consequences (if the initial conflicts mentioned before are solved successfully); it is said that closed societies, like endogamic families, tend to develop problems over time. 

	To sum up, we have seen in this essay the three principal issues that, at least to me, configure the picture of our present society's concerns. The most interesting thing is that they are all related between them. If we are to expunge them all, we should know that even trying to solve one, we are going to influence the rest, in a positive way. So there's no excuse to avoid trying to find solutions for them. The benefit for society is guaranteed.  
	
