Nowadays if the world is safer or not because of the war against terrorism is an issue that matters. Terrorism violates the Human Rights and it takes advantages of the States' disability to control the social order. Terrorism affects to the security of peoples' lifes that's way is so important to fight against it; that's why exists a war against terrorism. Since the terrorist attack against the Twin Towels in September 11th in 2001 the war against terrorism has become more important. After that date more incredible terrorist attempts have happened, one of these happened in Madrid,191 people died that day. In this essay it is going to present different points of views about if the world is a safer place as result of the war against terrorism.

Some people would argue that the world is a safer place because of the fight against terrorism. Since the attempt against the Twin Towels the safety measurements have been increased. For example: tow days ago a new law has began to work in Spain. This law says that people who travel in a plane could only carry liquids in a transparent bag. This law has been created because it has been discovered that some terrorist wanted to attempt using flammable liquids in England . It seems that this is a reasonable point of view because as result of new terrorist attempts the police know more about what they could use to produce them, where they could hide weapons or dangerous products or which places they could prefer to attack . So if police know more about terrorist strategies they could prevent new attacks.

It has been suggested that the world now it's not safer because of the fight against terrorism, there are people who think that since September 11th the world is more dangerous due to the terrorist threat. The terrorists try to find new manners to attack because police have discovered how they usually act. But the problem is that police usually discover new terrorist method after that they have used them. So there will probably always be new methods that terrorists could use which police won't know. It can be argue too that the war between Iraq and U.S.A, which it's suppose to be a war against terrorism, is stimulating an increment of terrorism. In Iraq the hatred against Americans and their allied have increased because of this war. This fact stimulate the augment of terrorism so it's reasonable to think that the world is not a safer place because terrorists will always find new methods to attempt and also because the Iraq's war produces more hatred which promotes terrorism.

An intermediate point of view could be that the war against terrorism doesn't affect the security of the world. There are people who argue that the States work to prevent new terrorist actions making investigations and fighting against those places where there are a lot of terrorists. This helps to prevent some terrorist attacks but it also produces that terrorists work to find new and more perfect strategies to attempt. Moreover the war that takes place in Iraq, it's a war that fights against terrorism. Due to this war in Iraq there are appearing more terrorists that try to attempt in those countries that participate against them in the war. So it's a contradiction to fight against terrorism at the same time that this fight is making to increase the terrorism.

To conclude there are many different arguments that show different points of view related to if the world is safer because of the war against terrorism. One of those points of view argues that the fight against terrorism helps to decreased terrorist actions. Against this point of view it has been presented another opinion, which defends the idea that the war against terrorism is promoting hatred in those places where there are a lot of terrorists and it also forces them to look for new strategies to attempt. Paragraph four talks about another point of view which defends that this war doesn't help to decrease the terrorism and at the same time it help to prevent some terrorist attacks. One reasonable prediction is that terrorism will continue acting and the States will continue fighting to prevent new attempts because this will helps to save lifes.
