
In this society there are some worrying social issues-social issues are related to theme refered to the society-. But not every social issue makes the people worry about because not every one is so important. For example if I talk about different kinds of combed this is related to society but it's not something that we should worry about because that's not a problem which could makes people's life worse or better. Although if I talk about work stoppage this is an important social issue. In this essay I'm going to talk about different worrying social issues, which are important in Spain nowadays. 

In my opinion the immigration is a social issue that from tow years ago it has became more worrying than before. Every year there are people from countries, which have religion, politic or social problems (most of them from Africa) that try to come to Spain. Last year the quantity of immigrants tried to go through Ceuta and Melilla's frontiers was huge. A lot of immigrants died those days. Some people think that immigration is not a problem because it's necessary more people who work in the agriculture and in factories on so on. If we let every immigrant come inside then it won't be enough work for too many people than now and because of this the crime would increase.  

It seems to me that another worrying social issue is the incredible cost of houses. The prices of houses have increase a lot. Now it's not easy to find one which cost less than 210.000 €. Adults who have a normal work earn around 840 € every month so if they buy a house, unless they have saved a lot of money or the have won the lottery, they have to ask for a montage. Usually people finish paying the montgage 35 years, this is crazy! Although it's even worse for young people. Young people usually earn around 540 € each month so it's almost imposible, unless their parents help them, to buy a house. It maybe is people who support that the price of a house is so expensive because the price of the ground increases too. But for example my house was built 20 years ago and my parents bought it 15 years ago and they paid around 18 pesetas. If they were sold our house now they could ask for it around 210.000 € (35.000.000 pesetas) and increases of the ground in this case it's not important.

For my part I believe that violence against women is one of the most important worrying social issues these days. Instead of that the murders are decreasing this year have already died 57 women, 57 women have been killed by their husbands or boyfriends. The last murder happened last October 16th;an old man stabbed his wife. Although one can know the number of the women that have been killed but one can't know the number of women who suffer abuses, because a lot of them don't go to the police. These women don't go to the police because they are afraid to do it. The reason of this is that if they do it their husbands or boyfriends could kill them. There is people who believe that if their partner hurt them if because their wifes or girlfriends have provoke them. About this I will say that nobody it's allowed to hurt anyone and those who do it have not any moral.

To sum up immigration, the high cost of houses and violence against women are, in my opinion, the most worrying problems in Spain. One solution to stop immigration could be that our prime minister asks for help to those countries from where immigrants come, to increase the vigilance in their borders. To solve the second social issue, that I have talked about before; the government should use the necessary measures to forces construction companies to decrease the prices of houses. About the violence against women, a month ago the government has increased the hardness of the punishment related to those one who hurt their wifes or girlfriends so I hope that this measure help to stop this problem.

