The human race has many problems with very difficult solutions, some are new but some of them are with us since many years ago. As a result of this problems, people live in a careless society where it is impossible to know what is going to happen the following day. In this essay I will try to show the three most important problems in our actual society and in my opinion these are terrorism, the environment destruction and drugs.

The first problem that I am going to argue is that I believe terrorism is a way of weakening human race by several reasons. First, terrorists kill innocent people without thinking about the pain that they produce in families, friends and people in general, it is dreadful and makes people feel fear. They do this because they want to express their problems and fight against them, which in my own view is praiseworthy, everybody can say and express what they want, but everybody will be agree with me when I say they lose the reason doing things like killing innocents. Second, terrorists try to emphasize the existing differences between people. This is true, we are very different, but at the same time we are equal in rights and duties and this should join us instead of spliting up. Third, terrorists always are trying to break cultural ties because of the wars that cultural factors like religion caused in the past producing the existing hatred. What they don't see is that a culture takes other things of other cultures and if we eliminate the ties between them we will fall in an important cultural poverty.

Another problem is the environment destruction which reduces our life quality. Actually, based on a recent study only a 20% of the total energy is renewable, this means that the 80% of energy is a waste of the Earth resources which are not regenerated  and when there wouldn't be any more resources we will not be able to produce energy taking place an energy crisis. Furthermore we are  giving off dangerous fumes, using  sprays, etc. and with this we are polluting, warming and weakening the Earth. Much people are not worried because they think that the resources are not going to finish and the Earth won't be weak enough to cause problems. But what is going to happen with future generations if we do this? probably they will pay the consequences of our acts. Finally, rich countries don't invest much in renewable energies, I know and understand that this kind of researches are expensive but in my opinion in the future renewable energies will be cheaper, cleaner and better than any other energy if we invest the money that is necessary.

The last problem that I am going to support are drugs. This is an emergent problem that affect  above all young people who take them at parties or at discos. Drugs show the worst part of the person, cause nerves, anxiety and witdrawal symptoms. Despite the fact of that, people like them and want them to be legalized. Although I understand it because if they like drugs they want to be free of taking them at anywhere. However, what I can not understand is why they kill themselves taking these dangerous things.

So then, I have explained the three most important problems that our society suffers. They are terrorism, environment destruction and drugs, these problems show the weaks of the human race and how we can destroy ourselves and our environment doing nothing to avoid them. On the basis of this, our world and human race probably would have change in some years' time because of our wrong actions
