Gay people would be allowed to get married and adopt children. Nowadays it's a theme very popular and that it's considered as a society problem, but it's not only a society problem, it's, also, a problem for the catholic doctrine and for party politics that don't find a solution for all the people are agree with the gays married and with the other "problem" that it's biggest than the other, that gays person can adopt children. For my part, I believe that gay people would be allowed to get married and adopt children because they're normal person as the people that married with a opposite sex person. Other people think [-] this, that isn't normal because it's not a natural inclinaton and they believe that it's something as a mental illness but it's not true and the person that like people of his/her some sex haven't got any illness, and that it's proved.

On the other and it's the theme of the legalise this marries, I think that in all cities of Spain would be legalise.

Some party politics don't want legalise this marries and this it's today a seious problems for a large extent of spanish society, but because this would be a problem if in the spanish constitution all the spanish are equal.... however the law, isn't equal in this cases but easily will be legalised.

Third, it's about that would be adopt children. It's a delicate theme because it's about a children and their future, education and their complete integration in te society but it's normal that gay person want to adopt.

The people think that these children that have been adopted by these person cannot to have a good education because one of the basic figures, father or mother isn't. But, really, this isn't a problem because isn't necesary in a good education for a son that he or she have the two figures, and this haven't to be esential in a family or for the develop of the children.

Another problem of the gays married is in the catholic doctrine, in my view, tis is very obsolete and wouldn't be in use today and for this cases.

This doctrine and the people that believe to them think about things, as for example, that your psychich lineage staty to a large extent without explanation, supporting in the holy scripture that it showes them as serious depravations, contrary to the natural law, or that gays person have to educate the inside liberty and it considers as sin the gays practics and it raises fear and [-] as the married as the adoption for this people.

For my this is illogical, nowaday wouldn't be follow literally a document that has been written more than two thousand years ago and try to [-] two centuries later when all the world have envolved, and a lor of people have fought by find his claims for can be happy and free without making damate to them.

Finally, various solutions for this theme as important in the society now, can be in the people, in their education, and the education of the future of the world, the children, an education based on the equality of the all people without his sex or his sexual inclinations, but also and more important, it's the progress in the laws, and it's a solutions that have in his hands the party politics, fighting by a equality society for all the persons.

