Madrid is a big city, capital of Spain, with about six million inhabitants, the major part 
of them having cars, that is, access to use a personal vehicle everyday, collapsing this 
way most parts of the capital. For many years, traffic has been a serious issue on this 
city, whether it is due to the great numbers of cars or because of the bad road's structure 
is still a matter to determine. In addition, this motorized ways are always used at critical 
hours, causing the biggest problems in Madrid, not just because of the cars, but also 
because of the consequences the pollution has brought to the city's natural environment. 
However, in this essay I intend to talk about possible solutions for the traffic problem.  
   Because of this, there's people inclined to use the public transport as a mean to get 
you everywhere, but nowadays fewer people use this means: the use of this kind of 
transport was of a 59% on 1996, being 49% among our days, it seems people is getting 
used to car. Needless to say, the descent of this isn't just a cause of people using 
personal vehicles, the government also have something to do with the issue. Politicians 
tend to expend the public money on constructing new roads that, supposedly are there to 
avoid traffic jams and this has proven to be a nonsense because those brand-new ways 
around the city, such as the emblematic M-40, are not designed to do this commitment 
but for the promotion of metropolitan growing, a metropolis that has barely grew lately 
on population, but which has augmented the expansion of ground that occupies. And 
this exposes another question or problem, still with the first unanswered: How much 
more is this city going to grew and it what transport-system is it going to develop? 
   Madrid has to rely on the creation of a web of public transport that covers everything, 
but always beginning on the existent options the city already provides, this is a city very 
resourceful, Madrid has almost everything covered -public transport speaking- it just 
has to improve itself using it own advantages.
Increasing the number of buses and trains is a expensive but helpful thing that would be 
a wise decision but this growing number of vehicles could also meant more problems on 
the road, the most vehicles there are, the most difficult is to "walk" by in the city. 
   Also, another possible solution to the problem against traffic troubles would be the 
construction of more appropriated roads. For example, returning to the M-40 as a traffic 
problem and not as a solution, the expansion of the roads by this one just implies the 
possibilities for the car drivers to collapse the city one way (with the pass-by roads) or 
another (with bigger roads, like M-30, M-40 and so on). The causes of this do not need 
of further explanation; traffic jams everywhere, anytime. On the other hand, if a road 
with the real intention of transport, not of expansion were to be built, passing by this 
critical zones, expanding its size to offer the possibilities of more cars to go there faster, 
easily, and not "eaten" by the blockages produced in there, a lot of problems would be 
quickly solved, nevertheless, governments prefer to use their power and their money 
otherwise, it seems. 
   Besides, banning cars on several streets would do an excellent job, too. This is 
something that is happening in several European cities, London included where there 
has been an implantation of a prohibition for vehicles to go into the most problematic 
zones, such as the centric one, where most cars are trapped everyday here, in Madrid.
Sad but true is the statement that this cannot become a reality because is almost 
impossible to move down the centrical streets of the capital by walking, because of the 
very long walks it would entail and because we just "need" the car.
   Another thing noticeable as a cause of Madrid's traffic is the pollution. Cars and 
vehicles in general are not the only responsible for this, but they play a huge role. These 
transports generate tremendous amounts of nocive gas, for the people and for the natural 
habitat, more destroyed every time in this city. Because of this gas and because of the 
built of the aforementioned roads, great expenses of threes are getting lost, we're 
consuming our own environment with almost no notice but seriously, I can't see how 
reducing the traffic jams would help this, if this problem were solved, there would still 
be a lot of cars out there, polluting not all at the same time, but each one giving its little 
part, destroying it. So maybe that's a solution after all: using the car less. 
   In conclusion this essay has pondered possible ways of solving an insistent problem of 
Madrid, the traffic one, we have seen the using public transport means solution, the 
proposition of new forms of build roads to help the traffic up, and the possibility of 
forbid the access by car to determined places on the city. I have argued of what would 
be logical and sadly, what wouldn't become real if we don't focus  this issue since the 
correct point of view: the one which wants to end with this kind of troubles.

