
           Terrorism is one of today's most worrying problems, concerning the entire World population; almost everyone could be a victim of a terrorist act. Throughout history, terrorism has existed as a form of violence against the most basic human rights -The right to live- probably starting with the executions during 1789's French Revolution, its main purpose being the change of some political decisions threatening people's lives, or trying to win power within a country in order to control economical activities. It is also known by everyone that this theme attracts the international Media, giving them more attention. Nevertheless, in this essay I'm going to talk about the different viewpoints on the fight against this form of violence.

	One of the strongest beliefs is that the world is a safer place now because of the new terrorism-prevention forms, most of them destined to ensure the safety on planes, having rised this particular fear since the horrible events on New York, September, 11th of 2001; people is carefully examined before leaving its country by plane and then again when arriving at a new one. Security measures are extreme, starting with simple metal detectors and getting to most weird things, such as taking one's shoes off, and the prohibition to carry anything liquid. Besides, acts against civil safety are most condemned since then, with heavier measures against those terrorists, not always respecting Geneva's Convention about prisoner's rights, an example of this being the inhuman cares the criminals on Guantanamo, where most of the terrorist end up enjailed. All of this could be a detail of the big sense of safety and trust in our system we have right now, a trust that, someone can say, is misplaced because of the discriminatory manners some people suffer due to their nationality; lately the world has a tendency to depreciate and avoid people with Arabic precedence caused by an irrational fear and subtly supported by the UN with its latest resolutions in which they try to keep a closer eye on them, aggravating this way racist conducts.

            Maybe that is the cause of some part of the population believing that a war against another war can't be a good thing. In addition to the creation of xenophobic reactions somewhere, it's also known that violence only generates violence, which usually develops into hate, and this mutual hate is only useful to increase the already existent tension; so, the more means to put a fight against terrorism, the most insidious their methods become, sadly ending this confrontations in deaths of innocent people stuck in the middle of the situation. For sure, this fact leaves a problem, do we have to stop trying to end with this undiscriminated violence in order to keep ourselves out of the new generated terrorism?

           Because of this contradiction, some might argue that we can use security measures which, handled with care would be able to reach a balance between the two counterpoints presented; maybe security teams need a new level of understanding and acceptance of other cultures, in order to avoid racist conducts, using the help provided b the basic rules of the UN, created in 1963, to keep the peace, the intention which the UN was initially created, ensuring people's rights, not minding their origin. The people who believe in this idea, also may think that, obviously, terrorist have to pay for the damage they've done, in an human way: legally-controlled prisons with the basics and a financial support for the victims of the crimes committed by them and ban this way, terrorist organisations. However, another suggestion points that wit this battle against terrorism, the world is indeed safer but on the other hand, levels of paranoia are increasing, above all in countries most affected by terrorism, like the US where the aforementioned level of distrust in foreign people is a fact, nowadays.
          To sum up, we can see that this is a complicated issue, with multiple sides and  we don't know whether this is good for real, or if pure security is just an utopia. Through the essay, we've discerned that safety is a thing of great importance among people, but that need is creating a big amount of distruth, as it's said before, or could we be able to get a little of both? This appears to be the great general idea, and though this could be discussed saying that people's security is on top of the list, most people would think that safety without this kind of anonymous friendship that is the trust is not worth it.
