	Nowadays many people in Madrid seem to be affected by the clearly increasing traffic problems in the city. The situation has recently got worse mainly due to the public works that the city council and the autonomous region of Madrid are carrying out, among other reasons as the high number of private traffic road or the deficiencies of public transport. In this essay I will intend to provide possible solutions like a tax to get into the center of the city, the improvement of the public transport and the car sharing that I personaly feel may help us to reduce these problems.

	The first solution I suggest is to apply a tax to the private cars which want to drive in the center of the city in order to get a decrease of the traffic road and increase the use of public transport. In my opinion, this tax would made people give up taking their cars and making them using the public transport just to avoid this tax if they really need to go to the center of the city. However, surely there would be a lot of people who won't be in accordance with this measure because it implies that the people who can afford to pay this tax would probably keep using their cars and consequently supporting the traffic jams while poor people, probably the ones who really need to use the car to go to their jobs, would feel obliged to use the public transport. Nevertheless, the experience has been tested and introduced in some European cities with good results like in London or Stockholm, in the last one the predictions during the first semester of year 2006 were a descending of the 10-15% of the traffic road but it turned out to be a descending of the 20-25% according to the last studies that have been carried out there. But as I see it, these measures couldn't be applied effectively without improving the public transport.

	I personally think that the improvement of the public transport would be clearly a real solution because the majority of the people would undoubtedly use it if offers alternatives to move throughout the city in a easy, fast and clean way. The actual public transport system in Madrid appears to be famous in Europe because of its instalations, extension and price but it seems to me that it would need an investment in orden to improve it because I think that it is also very unpuctual and presents a lack of transport unities. Although some people may think that this investment wouldn't be necessary or could be a waste of money because the public transport is nowadays very developed if we compare it with the others in Europe, I strongly believe that by doing these two improvements most of the people would use it instead of using the car since those are the most common problems which concern a lot of people.

	The car sharing is another solution tested in some cities all over the world. Some people argue that this kind of transport is a nuisance because the driver surely will have to get up earlier than he uses to just to pick up people that maybe he doesn't know or travel more kilometres than the usual. However, in my view this method could possibly be a great solution for the traffic problems as car sharing implies that the car will be full of people who share nearly destinies -or even work in the same company- instead of being occupated by only one person. Moreover, the driver and the car can be changed frequently from time to time so nearly everyone will be the driver who gets up early and the one who lends the car. If we calculate in outline, we can easily find that driving four persons in a car means three less cars in the road with only one person inside.

	To conclude, I have explained some possible solutions that I think could sort out the traffic problems in Madrid wich are to apply a cars tax to get into the center of the city, improve the public transport to promote its use and the car sharing. On the basis of this, I think that Madrid would be probably able to solve its traffic problem if solutions like these ones, about promoting alternative ways of transport and alternatives ways of using the transports, are known by the citizens.
