       In our present society there are several serious and worrying social issues. Many people seem to feel worried about problems that have an influence on their day by day lives, like the rising prices of housing, the many building works that are being carried out in big cities like Madrid, the mass unemployment problem or the civic insecurity due to a criminality increase. However, although there are many important issues to the citizenship, this essay will only focus on immigration, the housing problem and violence as a way of life. I will try to expose the three ones mentioned above, which, in my opinion, appear to be the most common and worrying problems these days, because it seems to me that they are very complicated and long term problems which need collaboration from all the citizens, including those who don't seem to be concerned about them.

       First of all, I would say that illegal immigration (specifically the African immigration) is a very serious problem that involves not only Spain, but also the rest of the European Economic Community countries. More and more immigrants (around 24.000 according to the last official research) have arrived this year at the Canary Islands, collapsing their main temporary shelter centres. Personally speaking, I believe that this problem surpasses the possibilities of the Spanish government in order to take control of the situation, and I strongly feel that the EEC countries should help Spain, because the frontier between Spain and Africa is also the frontier between Europe and Africa. Of course, it could be argued that Spain doesn't get involved into the immigration problems that exist in other EEC countries. However, I disagree with this: it seems to me that the most important number of immigrants who get into Europe is from African countries, and I strongly believe that the easiest way for them to do this is coming to Spain, so it would be better if the EEC countries helped Spain to solve this problem.

	Next, another issue is the housing problem. Some people feel that they can ask a determinated sum in order to sell their houses, according to the estimated amount of money that the main housing market fixes. However, I personally believe that this fixed amount of money ir very related to the speculation and exploitation of the building land. Prices keep rising, and, in my opinion, the majority of people who can't buy a house are young people who have very low salaries which keep them from renting or mortgaging a house. These days there are several associations which have been created in order to claim a decent house and the number of pacific demonstrations has increased, so I think the government should find a definitive solution for this problem, because the previous solutions they gave (such as flats with 30m²) didn't work and they were very criticised.

       Finally, violence as a way of life is an attitude that several people, specially the youngest, have these days. Some people might say that the increasing of violence is due to the increasing of foreign people living in our country. My own view is that there are many factors that have an influence on this issue: first, I think that society doesn't care anymore about moral principles like respect or tolerance, and it seems to me that people are more concerned with themselves than with the rest of the people. In addition to this, I tend to believe that in this individualistic society we consider almost every act towards us like an intrusion or an aggression, so people tend to react more violently. I think the mass media contributes to transform us into insensitive persons, because we are so accustomed to extreme violence in movies or TV news that the violence that surrounds us doesn't affect us.
       So then, this essay has presented the three main problems that I personally think are the most trascendental and difficult to solve these days for our country, because of the indifference of the people and their apathy: illegal immigration, which is a matter that implicates all of the EEC countries, the housing problem, which is becoming very important with different movements like the foundation of assemblies, and the violence problem in our indolent society. Considering all of these points, I believe that unless people get seriously involved in them, they may never be solved.


