       
       
       Terrorism could be considered as one of the most serious problems of the world in recent decades. Since the terrorist suicide attacks upon the United States, which took place on the morning of the 11th of September in 2001, the situation has recently got worse. The United States - supported by NATO countries and other allies - began a war against terrorism mainly from Muslim countries, in order to turn their political regimes into liberal democracies so that the world would be a safer place. This purpose appears to be very critizised, because since that war began there have been many serious terrorist attacks (like the ones in Madrid or London), and people's lives seem to be no longer secure. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning the world safety related to the war against terrorism.
       
       
       To begin with, there are many arguments in favour of the war against terrorism as a way of making the world a safer place. Many people believe that this war was necessary to eliminate some political and religious leaders, because their regimes seemed to be very authoritarian and dangerous. One of them is the former Spanish Prime Minister, Jose María Aznar, who claims that the world is now less dangerous without those leaders, like Saddam Hussein in Iraq or the Taliban government in Afghanistan. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses, because by attacking these countries the differences between Muslim people and people from Western powers may remain clearer than before, and the situation seems to go nowhere. Another possible argument is that Iraq didn't fulfil about twenty resolutions given by the United Nations. This appears to be a more convincing and logical argument, because the UN could be considered as the most respectable Organization of the world, since it was created to maintain international peace and to develop friendly relations among nations, and a country which doesn't fulfil its resolutions seems to be a menace to that balance between countries, and therefore, to the safety of the world.
       
       
       On the other hand, there are arguments against that security after the war. One of them is that the invasion and the attack of Muslim countries and the elimination of their leaders seem to encourage their supporters to make more and more terrorist attacks against countries which don't follow their beliefs - and even in their own countries. This argument seems difficult to deny, because many people would say that fanaticism is probably one of the most well-known characteristics of Islamic religion, in addition to their precept of the Holy War against the heathen. Another argument against is the evidence shown by the terrible massacres that took place in Madrid and London, where many civilians died. This argument seems to make sense, because as a result of these terrorist attacks, people tend to believe that the world is no longer a safer place, and they appear to be more afraid of going out and taking public transport (as the terrorist attacks took place there, in the trains or the underground). Furthermore, they feel that suicidal terrorists will keep committing these acts, as they aren't scared of dying for their beliefs. 
       
       
	There are other arguments regarding the safety of the world after the war, which depend on certain circumstances. According to social terms, some people believe that safety is impossible in a society which has always been authoritarian, because people can't get accustomed to the liberties offered by democracy which their religion may not allow. As a result of this, they might be more divided and there could be more conflicts, so that safety couldn't exist. Others may feel that war hasn't turned the world into a safe place - since there are still terrorist attacks - but it has helped to make it safer than before, because now there is more vigilance and the number of security forces has increased.


       To sum up, this essay has presented different points of view regarding if the world is safer or more dangerous after the war against terrorism carried out by the United States. Some of them deal with the necessity of changing the dictatorial system of the countries where the terrorists are living. Other arguments consider the fear of terrorist suicide attacks because of their precedents - the big massacres in Europe. Finally, there are the ones who depend on specific terms like social customs or the amount of forces that protect the civilians. Considering all of these points, it might me recommendable for the countries involved to try to find a way of dialogue with the help of the United Nations so that they could stop killing innocent people. 
