
      One of the most outstanding problems in the cities, and in our city too, is the traffic problem. Different researches show us the effects it has. First, a large percentage of pollution is because of, not only the factories, but also the fumes and gases that cars, motorbikes, vans, etc, give off. Next, traffic produces that that today we call telltale contamination, that is, loud noises which affect people producing headache, hearing problems...Traffic is also the guilty of anxiety and stress that a lot of people bears when they try to arrive on time to work. It makes people leaves their homes to live in other more quiet place. In addition, we should not forget other effects, such as loss of publics areas, the restriction for children, old people and disabled people, or excessive sedentary life. In this essay, I am going to talk about some points that, in my opinion, can help to solve this situation or least, make it improve.

      I think, a positive point is forbidding cars drive in some places. So, if somebody wants to go to these places, they will have to use the public transport. It is true that everybody would have to pay more money for buses, trains, etc, but that  money which you would spend in public transport, you would not have to spend it for petrol. Besides, these areas free vehicles would be more insurance for children and old people, and more pleasant for those who live in there, even for the tourist that come to visit the city.

      Personally speaking, I believe everyone should avoid the car whenever they can do it. To motivate that people do it, it seems to me, it would be useful reducing prices of public transports. Furthermore, I feel, many people do not use them because of the bad connection, that is, if you need to go to work and for it you have to take two buses, train and underground, it is possible you use your vehicle without thinking about. In addition, public transport are sometimes late, so, in my opinion, they should improve. Other way to motivate is not giving priority for cars in the constructions, but fitting out the places for using, for example, bicycles. Finally, it appears to me that publicity campaign or special association are a good idea. They could give more information about advantages to use different kind of transport, encourage people to they do not develop a sedentary life or teach all of the options to avoid the anxiety an stress of traffic( whenever it is possible).

      To sum up, I would argue  that the situation would get better if there were more commercial areas. Some people need to use their cars since the nearest store is really faraway from home. A special case which is taking place in our city, Madrid, is the excessive quantity of road works at the same time. In my opinion, works are usually good, even some people think of doing all of the works at the same time is beneficial because they will finish at the same time too. On the other hand I strongly believe that it produces a collapse almost total, and it would be better to do works little by little.

      So then, we know the serious problems that are created for traffic, but we now know too some solution that we can try. Maybe you have more good ideas to tell. It does not matter, I think that the most important is resolving this issue. Unfortunately, it will not be useful if everyone does not work for getting it. Your effort is useless if you are the only one who try it. The key is the collective effort.

      
