

Throughout history, terrorism may have existed. It can be defined as an illegal use of strength and violence against people with the purpose of intimidating the government and its inhabitants to have political and socials aims. Terrorism has long been a problem in some parts of the world. The situation has recently got worse because of the attacks in New York, Madrid and London and after have being captured Sadam Hussein, who is doomed to death because of the murderers he seems to have done. In this essay I will consider objectively different opinions of people whether the world is a safe place in the war against terrorism. 

On one hand, there are opinions which are in favour of that the world is a safe place to live in. Many people believe that the security has been increased all over the world after the attack to the Twins Towers in New York.  As George W. Bush, president of USA since 2000, points out that terrorism has been reduced, improving intelligence services. He argues that they have stopped successfully many bomb attacks when there has had some attempts. According to the opinions of the Internet users, terrorism has never given up with a democratic country so, at least, they believe that people might finish with it.  The problem with this argument is that it seems to suggest that people have a strongly security in everywhere when it might be only in airports because of a new law, which has entered last Monday, about what people have to carry on their handbags. Another argument which has certain weakness is that the American army has stopped many threats but not each of them. In other places, such as Spanish trains, there might be only little security. As some journalists said, a convincing argument would be that whether security would be everywhere, it would be embarrassing to whose have to travel everyday to their jobs or universities, thinking about what happened before. 

On the other hand, there are those who believe that currently, the world is not a good place. Terrorists are more spread and are trying to get more and more weapons. An illustration of this might be the headlines on newspapers which, sometimes, talked about the deaths in Gaza, the theft of 350 guns by ETA and the situation in Iraq, where its inhabitants are fighting for being a free country. According to Walter Reich, professor of foreign affairs and ethics, maintains that the world not a safe place because there is not any signal of where the enemy is. Nowadays, the 46 % of the people think that Bin Laden will be caught, in contrast of the 67% in 2003.  The White House could be considered Internet as an easy way of communicating for terrorists, through mails and codes without taking any kind of risk.

There are other arguments regarding the war against terrorism, which depend on the place people live. It could be felt that the countries which have not participated in wars before against Iraq would be safe. One of them could be Switzerland. Another possible viewpoint is that the secret services are those who put the bombs to the purpose of justifying a new war and winning money. Finally, some people believe that they may well live with terrorism the rest of their lives because they do not see any progress in finding the centre of this problem. It could be felt that, although governments could argue with the terrorist crews, probably, the world would be witness of another bomb attack in trains, planes, buses or the underground.


So then, this essay has considered the different opinions about the war against terrorism in our actual society. One of the main arguments in favour is the though that security has increased at high levels and that might make people safer. Others deal with the opinions about the world is not a secure place to live in.  This argument seems to make sense, because it appears more reasonable in terms of reality. Some of the evidence shows the titles or headlines in the press or TV about what happens in Iraq. There is another argument that deal with the opinion of those who think that the risk of being attack may depends on the country you live. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable to be tougher with the law and with terrorists because there still are people who do not feel safe in the world and this could be a problem that continues for decades.
