

Nowadays, the education is a topic which worries many people, above all family heads and people related with the world of the education. Besides, in general, almost everybody is aware of the advantages and disadvantages of the Spanish education system. The politicians' opinion, as well as the population's one, has a strong importance in our society, especially in themes like religion at schools, academic failure and difference between public and private education. In this essay I will try to discuss the different points of view in some main aspects related with the education.

One of the most important aspects in education is the fight between public and private school. Many politicians from the right support the private system, arguing that it is the only way to subsidize the education. In a private education system every school is able to choose the qualities of their teachers, the level of education and their evaluation criterions. On the other hand, more liberal politicians claim that private system would transform our society in a company system, in which just rich people could gain access to education.

Between these two points of view is the population opinion. According to a recent research, just thirty per cent is against of the private system existence. However, eighty per cent chooses the public system, forty-six per cent of them because of the diversity of personalities and families, and fifty-four per cent because of the idea of a public education, free for everybody. Many people feel that the academic quality and the discipline from private schools, joined to the advantage of reality and diversity in public centres, make the ideal method of education. This point of view seems to be the most sensible, because it joins the two main ideas of the politicians, trying to arrive to an agreement.

Other important theme, closely related with the previous one, is the agreement or disagreement with religion at schools. The Education Minister, Mercedes Cabrera, maintains that this subject is going to became into an optional one for people who want it. Instead of it, schools would give a behaviour and urbanity subject. In spite of this equitable solution, there are tow very different answers. In one side, the opposition president, Mariano Rajoy, claims that it is not a solution, mainly because there is no problem. Religion has completed the education system during centuries, and our society is mostly catholic, so it seems to be a good idea to follow in the same way. On the other side, republican and communist sectors assert that religion at school is just a setback, because the Church has not been able to follow the society changes, especially in education. It seems a good point but for the radicalism of its arguments, which suggest avoid religion from all the educative system.

Finally, academic failure, a problem which affects parents as well as teachers. In this point there are many opinions, but few solutions. A recent study indicates that sixty-two per cent of the parents find it necessary to create a law able to accuse the school in case the student does not have as good marks as it was awaited. This shows that most people feel that their children's' failure is not their fault, but from the teachers. The opinion poll says that sixty-four per cent believe that the teachers are not qualified. On the other side, teachers find it very hard to teach, every year more, and blame the parents because of the bad education the children receive at home. They feel that the families are becoming more and more careless with their children. A parallel opinion is the psychologists' one, who maintain that the academic failure is caused due to two facts: the bad television programmes, which are no appropriated to children; and the growing success of the computer games, which steal time to the students.

In conclusion, this paper has focused on the educative system in Spain and its different points of view. We can distinguish two main groups: conservative against liberal politics in some themes, and teachers in front of parents in other cases. Although most of the arguments appear to be very seasonable, it seems to be very difficult to find a solution to a problem which affects all children in Spain.
