

There are many problems in our society which affect to human being.
It's incredible that being in the twenty- one century the humanity had developed in some aspects so much and the others had developed nothing. This world would be better if some of these issues don't exist.

The first issue is the world poverty. The ten per cent of the world population enjoys seventy per cent of the wealth of all  the planet, eight hundred million people don't have access to the enough food to feed themselves, one thousand two hundred million people either gave access to the potable water... I think that is a big problem and we must stop it. It happens because the capitalist system is favourable to rich countries and their business and it prevents to the poor countries to fight against the poverty. In my opinion we should give more aid to eradicate the extreme poverty and the hunger.

In addition, I will add that the fascism is other issue very interesting and important in our society. Fascism is a group of immoral thoughts like no-liberalism, the justify of the racism or the existence of one- party system, which lots of people try  to reflect by means of their cruel actions. The fascism began in Italy with Mussolini and now in the twenty-one century there are many people who have all the old thoughts and ideals. I think that we shouldn't stagnate in the past to develop ourselves mentally and achieve to live in a peaceful world where we can express our thoughts without we have to be repressed. Nowadays fascism is more and more widespread in young people. I could see several times the constant aggressions of fascist groups to black people or people to simply think in other ideals and principles than them, while the police don't offer resistance. So I think that this situation is a serious problem of tolerance, because I respect their thoughts but I don't share it.

Finally, I'll explain the big problem of domestic violence. Last years domestic violence has increased gradually until to arrive to the point in which almost each day a woman dead, murdered by her husband. Nowadays a high per cent of women are battered by their husbands and in most cases these women finds deaths. Unfortunately, men still exit who think women are in their possession and have many male-chauvinist and older thoughts that today are stupid and retrograde. Normally, these abusers have suffered battering when they were children. Recently many men manifested against domestic violence and I think that these men's support is very important to raise that battered women awareness of the problem and so that they know  are in danger, but their fear tells themselves. The male-chauvinist thoughts are the result of years and years when men were considered superior to women, but now in the twenty-one century all the world know that it is false, because we are the same, without distinctions.
It is terrible, thinking it can exist these despicable men who destroy wife's lifes with psychological and physical mistreatments.

To conclude, these three issues seems to be seriously affecting our society in many ways.It seems to depend on us to prevent it. Possible solutions may be: educating people to have higher moral principles and more contact with nature to reduce stress and anxiety which can cause domestic violence, violent thoughts or rich people who let they die of hunger to poor people and more things that make worse world.


