      
      
      Terrorism is, actually, a problem which is increasing little by little since some years ago. Terrorists objetive is to achieve their political or religious objetives by pain and violence. Instead of terrorism exists  since several years ago, it is going from bad to  worse since the enormous attack to United States by Al Qaeda in September the 11th of 2001-and as consequence the war in Irak-In this essay i am going to discuss whether the world is a safe place or not.
      
      	Some people would argue that world is not a safe place because terrorism is expanding each day. In addition to this problem, terrorists try to use new attack methods like explosives into public service vehicles -March the 11th, Madrid- or crashed airplanes-New York,2001-.
      As well,terrorists attempt to make unrecognised arms or weapons of mass destruction to catch their victims unawares. It would be important to mention those people who are able to surround theirselves with explosives and detonate them to murder everyone who is near: suicide bombing.
      The argument that world it is not a safe place seems to be logical because is not possible to keep under control the whole world to prevent each attack.
      
      	Another possible argument is that world is, on the contrary, a safe place. War against terrorism tries,in fact, to break up any attack intention. This is the reason why, for example, actually is being paid special attention on luggages in airports in Spain. Maybe this safety measure is a little annoying to travellers, but it is really the only way to prevent new attacks.
      This argument could be considered a realistic perspective, since police has been able to descover some attacks before being comited.
      
      It exists another point of view referred on politicians. Wars involves a great  money increase to those countries which fight in a safe position. Some politicians think that war will not damage their  city, but it will provide them with a better life.
      This argument is not very realistic because there are several countries which are not able to confront everything a war brings on. And it does not  bear in mind either the posibility of an after terrorist reprimand.
      
      	Finally, there are quite a few people who think world is a safe place depending on some factors.
      It seems that living in countries as United States, England, or Spain-contries which were in favour of war against Irak- is more dangerous than living in countries like France or Italy which were not agree with war.
      It has been also suggested that main cities like New York, Madrid or London are less safe. Although, the argument that safety depends on people residence, is not too much persuasive because also ideologies influence on it.
      
      	In sumary, we can see that there are differents points of view about world safety. Some people think terrorism is a too large problem to control it. Another people think it is possible to avoid attacks by inquiry. And finally, few people think this safety depends on some factors, like political or religious values or residence place. However, terrorists, little by little, are exerting its willpower wherever they want. It would be necesary to fight against this new war which is, in a lower or higher rate, having an effect on all of us.
