It was a lovely, wonderful, sunny Monday morning...i took my car after having a plentiful breakfast to be able to be efficient during a long and endless eight-hour day. I opened the car window...it smelt of Spring...at last, i arrived to the motorway and...curse it!. It was riddled with cars, busses, lorries, vans, tankers and all kind of vehicles. The fresh air was transformed into fumes. It was only heard horns and hysteria was taking possession of me...it was, in short, another one working day.
This is the same problem hundreds of people suffer each day: the traffic jams.
Those people who has to take a transport method like busses or cars to get to their jobs or universities, are forced to confront long waits on the roads early in the morning and, also at night when they are trying to get home after a hard working-day. This problem seems to be increasing little by little since people-in general-prefears to move in their own ways and comfortably.

	To begin with, there are a lot of people who do not really need a car to get to their jobs. For example, some people prefear to take it instead of living relativily near their offices because it is rainning, because they want to smoke while driving-it is not allowed into public service vehicles-,or because of their comfort in general. In my opinion, it would be fine if those people went to their jobs on foot. In this way, they are allowed to smoke, talking on the mobile phone-it is banned by car-, and even they are increasing their physical activity, which is beneficial to their health. With regard to this subject, i would like to mention some cities where people has the habit of moving theirselves on bike or even roller-skating. They are examples like Liubjiana (Slovenia), Amsterdam (Holand) or countries like China. Cities and countries  like those i have mentioned are perfectly  ready to move oneself  riding a bike. This is a fact which makes easier the traffic on roads and, of course it's healthier to people and less harmful to the environment. However, it could be argued that cycling or walking in the rain it is not pleasant to anyone, but, in that case, it is better to take a public service vehicle than taking your own car if we are trying to fight against traffic jams.

	Next, some people have the chance of taking a bus or a train which gets them near their offices, schools, universities or whatever, but they reject it to be in favour of their cars. Sometimes, taking the underground-for example-not only helps to make more fluent the traffic, but it is also faster and we haven't got to suffer from nerves when our car is not able to moves between thousands and thousands of transports.

	Finally, i am aware of people whose cars can not be supplant by another kind of transport because their jobs obliges to transport big material or objects which could disturb people in a public area, and also people whose jobs are, in fact, too far from their homes. In that case there is a good option to prevent traffic jams: every morning on the radio is possible to listen the worst ways to move-on, on account of an accident, an excess of vehicles or a slight damage on the roadway. So, we can use that information to choose different ways to get the places we want to.

	To conclude and as a resume, it is important to choose the best option to avoid traffic jams, this is, going on foot or riding a bike if we live near the work, instead of taking our own car. Taking a public service vehicle when it is in our hands, instead of taking our own car, or trying to find the road less bursting with vehicles.  I think these advices will help the other drivers, ourselves, an even our own earth.
