
Terrorism has existed for many years. In our present society, it can be considered one of the most of the serious problems that affect human race. Nowdays, the world is not a safer place because for many experts terrorism will continue. In this essay I intend to   give different opinions about if the world is a safer place as result of the war against terrorism.

Firstly, I personally believe that the root of the problem lays in the attack that happened in New York in the eleven of September 2001, widely known as "11-S ". This fact was what unchain between the United State of America and Irak.

One of the arguments to explain the world is not a safer place could be, despite others  attacks ocurred in others countries how for example Spain or Britain ( in Spain the day eleven of March  2004 in Madrid and in Britain the day seven of July 2005, in London) is that the the American occupation continues. Due to this fact many people, both American and non American, disagree with Bush's politics on this subjected and want him to end the occupation. In addition to this problems, there is the fact that the although of the attacks in New York still has not be found. As well as the fact that the privacy of the American people has been greatly deteriorated. Another negative consequence of this war is that new smaller terrorist grups and are constantly been formed. 

 I think that as consequence of this increased violence we have seen a higher number of security measures in airports, customs, and large cities in general. As well as, increased presence of State's security Bodys. This fact, for some people is a sign of safety and for other people is a sign of all the contrary.

In conclusion, Jorge Bush and the rest of the countries that supported this war against terrorism, did not for see the consequences that the war could have, nor they took into a count the opinion of the public.  Most of the people think that the war was a mistake. president bush, as well as Britain Prime Minister, Tony Blair, recognized  months ago that the massive destruction weapons never existed. Bush even recognized recently that he was not satisfied with the results. He affirmed that: "the events of the past month have been a serious concern to me", " I know many Americans are not satisfied with the situation in Irak, and I am not satisfied either". 





 


