
In our present society, the traffic in Madrid is an evident and every day problem. The root cause of the problem may lie in the high number of vehicles driving every day, combine with a possible infrastructure problem. As well as, nowadays, everybody have one car at least. I therefore intend to give possible solutions to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

The first thing to consider is the great size of the city and therefore its ever growing population. Due to this fact, we think we need our car to move anytime and anyplace and this is one of the reasons of, also, the ever increasing number of vehicles, as well as, the easiness with wich anyone can nowadays purchase a car.
Life in the city is often considered to be fast, and therefore, we often think will be wherever we need to be much sunner if we take we our own car. 
However what we do not counciously realize is that we are not taking our car because we are going to get wherever we need to get faster, but because it is the most comfortable way to get there.

Having exposed some of  the main causes of the problem, it would be fair now to give some possible solutions.
The first and most important solution for me would be to reduce to a maximum the number of vehicles in the centre of the city by prohibiting driving during working hours excepting, of course, small loading and unloading merchandise vehicles. 

Another solution would be to use more the public transport because as well as helping to reduce the traffic, it would help to decrease pollution; wich is another quiet serious problem affecting us directly. In adittion to this fact, the public transport has some advantages and some disadvantages, for example, the underground has an advantage: if you decide to take this medium of transport you will have the certainty that you will not be late wherever you need to go, with some possible exceptions, of course!.
Other public transport services such as busses and taxis may also have advantages compare to private transport, however, from my point of view they may result much slower than the underground, most of all at peak times.
Personally, I prefer the bus, because travelling on the surface is more entertaining, less boring, it allows you to became familiarised with streets, buildings and roads of the city you live in. This is why the underground seems to me much less comfortable than buses and coaches.

In adittion to the above, I would consider a quite unusual solution wich in fact I think would result rather rare in the Spanish culture. This would be sharing our own car with others. I think that this would be a highly civic solution to traffic problems. I am talking about, not only sharing my car with my dear friend or my neighbour who casually goes in the same direction as myself. I am proposing and organised way to share private vehicles all around the city of Madrid. I do not want to extend myself very much. Basically, it would be a matter of lounching an awareness campaign and subsequent organisation by town hall.

I would like to end this essay by enumerating the benefits of one or more of the solutions given above:
  	*The planet would benefit from the decrease in number of vehicles because there would be less pollution, less energy wasted, less oil needed...
      * Number of traffic accidents would be significantly reduce, therefore more lives saved.
       * Less vehicles means less traffic jam and it is wibely known that traffic jam cause stress, therefore if we reduce traffic, will be able to improve our own health. 







                                     

                                                                                    



