

In our present society the possibility of legalisation of marijuana has generated controversy throughout the world. Since civilization began, the use of drugs has been a way to get into a different state of conciousness. Cannabis, which was known at the same time in both China and Antique Greece for 15.000 years, due to its pharmaceutical qualities was used as a medical resource. According to Marco Polo, the muslim sect of "assains" used to consume cannabis before going to fight because of its relaxig properties. Long afterward, it was introduced in Europe by Napoleon. The use of marijuana with playful uses became popular in Europe due to artits as Baudelaire or Delacroix, who founded "Club des haschischiens". In the 60's, marijuana was choosen by hippy movement and numerous movements of the counter-culture. In this essay I will dicuss different viewpoints about the legalisation of marijuana.

To begin with, there are those who defend the legalisation of cannabis. Most of them consider the fact that it is the most commonly used illegal drug in Europe. By taking into account as the saying goes "a prohibition wakes up a desire", if cannabis is generally legalised it coul be possible to argue that lot of people would reduce their consume. It's widely pointed out by these people that both alcohol and tobacco are drugs indeed and both have been legalised so there's no reason for not allowing cannabis to be legalised. As a consequence of this, by legalising cannabis the huge black market would dissapear and what it means to deliquency. In addition, from an economic point of view, this possible legalisation would mean an enrichment of the country because cannabis would be sold with sales takex as if it were any kind of legal product. However, although these two viewpoints appear to be logical, they have certain weaknesses. It seems reasonable to say that according to the "European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drugs Addiction" cannabis is the key for young people to consume hard drugs as cocaine. On the other hand, there are numerous smuggling rings which are against this legalisation because they may lose big sums of money.

Another argument, which is worth taking into account, is the possibility to legalise it but only the consumption not its traffic. An illustration of this could be the case of Holland. Dutch government believes that drug use is a health problem not a criminal issue. When looking at the statistics on drug use in Holland compared to other places in the world it seems that Holland is a safe country with a low crime rate and low drug abuse rate compared to countries like the U.S.A. which have taken a completly different aproach to this issue. However, this position is not followed by the rest of E.U. members, so Holland has forced shops to have only 500 grams or less of stock and all customers must be 18 years or older. Nevertheless, the mid-point idea of semi-legalisation seems to make sense, because in the case of addicts they wouldn't get a fine for consuming marijuana and at first sight it could appparently be true that the deliquency with respect to this issue would decrease.

On the other hand, there are some who are absolutly against the legalisation of marijuana. This main group is repreesnted by researchers and scientists. Wolfgang Gštz, President of the EMCDDA aforementioned two paragraphs above, claims that scientific community is in agreement on the issue. Almost a majority of the scientific evidences which were shown in the las meeting of the EMCDDA celebrated in May 2005 in Lisbon showed that marijana impairs the mind every time it's used, intefering with learning, work and parenting. From the physical point of view, it has been generally agreed that it produces respiratory and cardiovascular risks as well as it produces changes in the sexual ormones (i.e. the output of spermatozoons decreases). Moreover, society experience with alochol shows that if a drug is legal for adults, it becomes more acceptable and available foor teens. This could be considered a realistic perspective, since all the researches fully agree on the risks that marijuana can produce and society is aware of alcohol and tobacco hurt too many people already, so legalizing marijuana would only cause more damage.

Finally, in the last decades, another mid-point has been developed. Some researchers have suggested that marijuana might have some potential pharmaceutical uses. It could be used to palliate several effects of chemotherapy such as sick feelings, or to be used in patients which suffer from AIDS in order to whet their appetite. The problem with this argument is as William Bever, chemist at the Georgetown University, says: "there are several effects which prove marijuana might have some therapeutical uses, but not enough to give the go-ahead to the issue. Researches must continue until it could be proved that it presents more benefits than side effects".

To conclude, there are many arguments concerning the idea of the legalisation of marijuana. Some of them defend this legalisaton: on the one hand those which are for the legalisation both in terms of consumption and traffic, and on the other hand those which are for the legalisation but only from a consumption point of view. However, there are two points of view which are against: those who are absolutly against and those who would allow the legal consumption but only in certain cases (i.e. as a medical treatment). Anyway, it has been often believed that drugs by themselves are not dangerous, the danges lies in the uses we make of them.

