Nowadays, Spanish society is involved in both a political and social controversy about homosexual marriages. Throughout history, civilizations have maintained several perspectives respect homosexuality. From prohibition, punishments to tolerance and finally, acceptance. It all began in 2001, when Dutch Parliament approved the law which allowed homosexual couples to get married and being beyond to adopt children too. After Holland, in 2003 Belgium did the same. In April 2005, after much discussion, Spanish Parliament almost on a majority approved the same law. Spain became the third country in the E.U. where homosexual marriage is absolutely legal. In this essay I tend to argue that homosexual people must have the same right to decide if s/he wants to get married and I will even go so far as to show that an adoption made by homosexuals wouldn't harm the child.

First of all, I strongly believe that nobody has the right to decide what rights you can enjoy. Focusing on the aim of this essay, I feel that no one should be discriminated by taking into account the sexual choice you have done. According to the most constitutions of democratis countries as well as the "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen" (1948) nobody can be discriminated because of his race, colour, sex, language, religion, (...). Moreover, in the sixteenth article it's said that both men and women of full age without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family.

However, although this Declaration is generally agreed, there is some people which keep on believing that homosexuality is an illness. As a consequence of this, homosexuals are people who suffer from an illnes and as an ill person they have to be treated. In my opinion, this argument has no sense because since in 1973 the A.P.A. (American Psychology Association) refused homosexuality as an illness, numerous organizations throughout the world (i.e. W.H.O.) has done the same because they have found neither physical symptom nor psyschological symptom of illness.

It's sometimes argued by some people who are against homosexual marriage that they fulfil a social service by saving "traditional model of marriage" from the risk of corruption as if getting married homosexual couples, heterosexual ones lost rights. In the case of Spain the main group which is against is Spanish Catholic Church. It thinks as its president Mr. Ricardo Blazquez said "a marriage it's only a institution that can produce new lives". Nevertheless, speaking personally I think Catholic Church shouldn't intervene in this issue, because one of Catholic Church's pilars is love. If we think about lot of heterosexual couples who don't want to have any child, according to Mr. Blazquez's words, these marriages wouldn't exist even if there's love between the partners. What I mean is sometimes a real love - a love not deformed by sterotypes most of the time concerning the idea of homosexuality with sex or promiscuity can be found in a homosexual couple instead of lot of heterosexual couples which end getting divorce.

Finally, closely related to the idea expressed in the paragraph above, my own personal opinion about the adoption by homosexual couples is very clear as well as it is for experts. It's generally agreed by researchers that a child, who is brought up by an homosexual coupple, developes a great sense of tolerance, creativity, imagination, and so on. During the 1st Symposium of homosexual adoptions celebrated in Caceres (Spain), Maria del Mar Gonzalez, chairman of the Department of Evolution Psychology at the Universidad de Sevilla, revealed the results of her research on this kind of adoptions. She was very clear: "there's no objection from a scientific point of view to allow an homosexual person to adopt a child, there are only ideological reasons which society has to break with". Nevertheless, certain groups claim that this kind of "family" could harm the child. In other words, it could make the child mistakes what the figure of father is and what the figure of a mother is. However, it appears to me that this coulld be a great way to break with the roles that men and women have been given in society.

So then, it's clear form my point of view that there's no reason for not allowing homosexual people to get married and even to adopt children. Firstly, we have seen that both heterosexual and homosexual people have the same rights. If homosexual couples get married, heterosexual people wouldn't lose no one of their  rights. It only brings equality to society. I have argued that people should break with the idea of homosexuality they have, most of people think homosexuals are promiscous as it is shown in TV or in films. Finally, it has been generally agreed that an homosexual adoption wouldn't harm the child because s/he will be brought up in an atmosphere of tolerance. Having described the situation, my own opinion is that this a great step to get equality, but only a legal equality, the equality will be got when nobody is shocked while seeing two men or two women kissing.

