Nowadays there are a lot of surveys talking about you can think about life: the telecomunication, the present family and the society problems too. I think that the three most important problems in our society are: unemployment, the housing and the increase of prices due of euro\rquote s introduction. Although each person can think about different problems, I think these three are the most important ones and I am going to develope them.
 The first problem I am going to talk about is the unemployement that, for me, it is a serious problem that we have to solve. This is increasing in the occidental society and that, it is very important because we live in a consumist society where you can buy all you want with money. I also think that the Maslow's theory is true. Maslow said that a person has to see catered for some things like security, self-realitation or basic needs. So, it is very important to us to have money to feel us protected from homeless, poverty and things like that. So, what we can say is that we are afraid of losing our job. But, what can we do? I think that if it there is more public works, the unemployement will be smaller than now. 
My second point of view about the three problems is the increase of prices, that it is a very frequent topic nowadays and it is realated with unemployment problem. In my view, the Irak's war is one of the reason of the increase of prices, because this countries are oil exporters, so they can control the prices. Now, you go to buy something and it is more expensive than before and, in my opinion, it is not fair for consumers because our salaries don't increase like prices do. I think that one solution for this problem is to reduce the gouverment taxes. So, what we have to do is find solutions because we can not tolerate that the economic weath of our society decreases.
And finally, my last topic that is the last but not less important is the housing problems. The problem with housing that we have to face up to it is the prices. Now a house cost us twice more than before or more, so we have to ask for a mortgage  to the bank and, you not only pay the house price, you also have to pay the bank interest each month. So, anybody doubt that it is very expensive to buy a house, so, I see myself with 30 years old, living with my parents because I can not afford a house. Some people says that now young people likes living with their parents because they don't want to spend money, but, in my opinion the true is that, simply, we can afford it!. So I think that what the gouverment must do it is to make better political rules in the construction.
To sum up, our society has many problems like pollution, traffic, corruption, but in my view the old problems must be solved in first place. This problems are unemployment (that is less in summer and at christmast), housing (big mortgages) and prices (higher due of Irak's war among others). We can not wait more for solutions, we have to do something to change it.



 