Nowadays, the society is worried about the two old problems that have followed the society of the past twenty years. These problems are the increase of the greenhouse effect and the situation of the immigration. If we add to these problems, the problem that appeared in 2001 with the terrorist attack to the World Trade Center, which start an influx of terrorism in the U.S.A. and in all Europe, we obtain the three social issues that most worrying the society of our days. In this essay I will explain the effects of these problems in the society and I'll try to give my opinion in every of these problems and, if I can, I'll try to find solutions for them.

Firstly, we are going to treat the problem of the pollution and the increase of the greenhouse effect. The natural disasters have increased in the last years since the Industrial Revolution. It seems to be that the pollution and the greenhouse effect have caused this increase and the high level of pollution is caused by our factories, our automobiles and by our incontrollable fires and dumps. The greenhouse effect is principally caused by the air's pollution; and all these facts hurt the Earth and not only the Earth, because natural disasters kill thousands of people all over the world. In my opinion, we have the responsibility of doing something because, besides we have the fault of this, I believe that all the mothers want their children to live in a beautiful world and I suppose that no mother want their children to die by their fault, because they didn't recycle, because they didn't use the public transport, because they did nothing to stop the pollution. In contrast, I must say that some people think that there isn't any increase of the natural disasters and that this is only because, nowadays, we have more information in TV, in radio, etc; but I believe that this posture is wrong because we can't ignore that in our own country there are natural disasters that never happened before, for example, the little hurricane in Galicia and the extreme temperatures that we stand in summer and winter.

Now, we are going to treat the problem of the immigration. The immigration is caused by the poor situation of the immigrant's origin country. Immigrants search a better life travelling to others countries where the life's level is higher. This is a social problem because apparently with the increase of immigration have increased violence and vandalism too. It's difficult to give a solution to this problem because the best solution will be to improve the economic situation of the poor countries and nowadays it seems to be impossible. Personally speaking, I feel that immigrants come to rich countries in order to find a good job and a better life but they can't find this and they must steal things to buy food and a place to live. I think they're only victims of this society based only in money. However, other people think that they're only vandals and criminals that remove jobs and that they only come to rich countries for stealing but, in my opinion, immigrants are the people who increase the economic level of the countries and they're the people that do all the jobs that Spanish people don't want to do.

Finally, the most recent problem: terrorism. Although, terrorism has appeared before the 11-S, it never appears so frequently like since the terrorist attack to New York. In Spain, Al-Qaeda terrorism has added to E.T.A. terrorism and it has created a massive influx of terror. Nowadays, Spanish government is negotiating with E.T.A. in order to finish with E.T.A's terrorist attacks. But, is it really a good idea? In my opinion, it isn't a good idea because with this negotiation it seems that if you want something you must kill people to obtain your objectives. On the other hand, there could be people who think that it's good that no more people die for terrorist attacks and I agree with this position but we can't permit that murder will be the way to obtain things.

In conclusion, those three problems that affect our present society  have difficult solutions, but, we have to do something with terrorism, immigration and  the increase of greenhouse effect if we want our descendents to have a good life full of ecology, equality and peace. 