
Terrorism has been the main manifestation of violence of the last fifty years all over the world. Names like E.T.A or al-Qaeda are familiar for American and European people, especially since the terrorist attack to the World Trade center in 2001. That fact starts the world war against terrorism. However, is this a good idea? Politicians like Bush, Blair or our ex-president Aznar try to convince people that this is the only possible solution in order to finish with the influx of terrorism that we have been suffering for decades. Good or not, people have many different opinions about if this method is going to finish with terrorism and if it is going to convert the world in a safer place or not. In this essay, I will discuss different opinions about the war against terrorism.

Firstly, I must say that there are many arguments in favour of the war against terrorism. 
Many people think that terrorists are murders and they have to pay for the pain of their victims and their families and they think that if terrorists disappear the world will be safer. Other people use to say that this method is going to show terrorists that they can't do whatever they want without punishment in order to attain their objectives and they think that with this punishment terrorists wouldn't make terrorist attacks and the world would be safer; and other people could believe that if the politicians of their countries have decided that this is the best solution, this solution must be right and they must lean this in order to make the world a safer place. Although those three viewpoints appear to be persuasive, they have certain weaknesses: the first two arguments appear to us like a method of revenge and the experience of all our life says us that revenge never solves things and it only cause more revenge; this fact doesn't contribute to make the world a safer place. If we want to finish with terrorism that must not the way. The last argument seems to be only a patriotic argument to lean something which they can't find a solution by themselves and put their will in their politicians.

On the other hand, there are lots of arguments against this war more almost that in favour. The first common viewpoint is that this war is not against terrorism because U.S.A. and almost all Europe are throwing their bombs and sending their soldiers to Iraq and Afghanistan's civil population and not to terrorists and this doesn't make the world safer because there are people suffering. Other common opinion is that this war is for the control of petrol and that politicians have invented the excuses of fighting against terrorism and social injustices to control it and, of course, this fact doesn't made the world safer. And other extended opinion is that the war against terrorism has become a civil population's slaughter and that this fact only generates hate and more terrorist attacks for revenge making the world more dangerous and not safer. These arguments seem to make sense, because we aren't safer, there are terrorist attacks almost every month in many countries, so, it seems that the world isn't safer that before the start of this war.

The last viewpoint that I will mention is the opinion of most Americans. This viewpoint says that although, at first, the war against terrorism started in order to find terrorism's solution, it has degenerated in a war that uses terrorism too. Therefore, it appears that the solution has become in the own problem. This argument seems a logical argument too, because, maybe, when we tried to do something good we became in the problem that we were trying to solve. 

In conclusion, there are some several arguments in favour and against the possibility of whether this war is going to solve the problem of terrorism and make the world less dangerous or not, but, one thing is certain: there are terrorist attacks with and without war against terrorism. Perhaps, this is not the best form for fighting terrorism.   




