There are three main issues that i will explain. The first issue is about enviroment these days, something worring to speak about. The second issue is the poorness, and thirdly but relationated with the second issue, inmigration. We could speak for a long time about these issues, but I'll try to be brief and don't make it boring for the readers.

Starting with the enviroment, I'm really worriedabout this topic. We can see that the world is changing everyday since the begining of the mankind. Always is focusing on the future, but how much time we currently have if  we don't care about the enviroment now? Honestly, running out of time. Humanity have left nature a side seeking just technology goods. Nowadays nature is needed of attention, and she is calling us with meteorogical disasters or the increase of temperature around the globe, wich is in a constantly growth due to the big quantities of gases released. Desert are growing, ocean level is increasing and the forest are slowly becoming continous autum. Is this right?

It is true that the cost of living and many advanced technologies have been achieved in experiments and factories, that cannot be denied. But we have to measure our acts.
It is funny, but our technology that is currently poluting the planet will be the key to find other ways to save energy and to clean the atmosphere.

I hope that people learn how to clean their own garbage and the garbage that has been accumulated during centuries.   

Changing subjet, about poverty. How can it be posible that in a world where we have all ¾ of total population is poor? The answer is clear, that's becouse the economic interests of the powerfull countries. I'm speaking about the occidental world. It is strange tha Africa and South America, two of the richest areas in the world in terms of raw material and resources both belong to the third world. My opinion is that these places have been dragging the consecuenses of the colonisation since too many years and are still prisoners, as currently U.S.A in South America, or France in Africa, where the economic pressure of the big countries is very strong.

I think this is the main reason of the poverty. I would like to have the solution, but i have not. Many people thinks that the charity is a good way to solve this. Organizations like "Médicos sin fronteras" or "Save the Children" are helping everyday in the third world. With this help, some of the poor people can live. 

Then, this is a good argument if the people wanna think that the poverty will disapear.
But, if we think a littlebit more, we will see this is deeper than it seems. If you give food to the poor people, the poor people will eat for some days. If you give money to the poor people, they will have useless money, couse in the poor countries the money is useless. But if you teach the people how to harvest, they will have food for a long time. If you give them good materials for harvest, they will be independents. If they are independents, maybe they will be powerfull. If they are powerfull, they will want work rights and justice for all. If they want rights and justice for all, the manpower in that country will be more expensive for the international companies. Then everything will be more expensive. So, the poor people must be poor becouse that's a help for us and our lifestyle.

This problems about poverty, create another problem, imigration. I mean problem for the companies, no for the people. But this is an interesting issue.

Actually there is polemics with the immigration. Some people think that those poor people come to kill, rob and make the life more complicated. Though other people are openminded and think that the immigration can make goods for the country.

These are the facts (specially in Spain):

In the 70's were born 670.000 children. In 1995 were born less of 54%. Between 1995-2002 were born 400.000 children, 43.000 from immigrants. So, immigrant population is encreasing the population.

Between 1995-2005, the Gross Inner Product has increased 2.6% annual points due the immigration.

Immigration contributes to Social Security with 8.000.000 euros yearly.

Now, something amazing. Many spanish people thing the immigration couses the delinquency. Absolutly not. The fact is that only the 5% of immigrants have comitted delinquent acts in 2004.

All this information is from INE <R> .

Then, what can we say about the immigration? I already have answered this question.

In order to finish, personally I think there are too much issues in our world, and like I saya t the beginning of this essay, we could speak for a long time. Nevertheless, those three issues I have expressed are actually the most importants for me. 

Like an old man said : "Is easy to speak about the problems, the hard work is look for the solution.















León González-Ruiz Smit.



