

   Nowadays, there are many reasons to try to end with terrorism in the world and now there are some wars fighting against it, but many people are asking if this fight will make our world safer or not. Terrorism is the act of trying to obtain purposes which could be political, economical, religious and so on, by using violence, producing fear and terror in citizens and disturbing peace. Terrorists use many different kinds of violence, which attempts to human rights. For example, they use physical violence like kidnapping, torture, or moral violence, like menace. In this essay, I will try to point out some viewpoints about the war against terrorism.
   
   Firstly, some people believe that we are safe of terrorism because security has been increased in many countries by politicians. There are more policemen in streets and especially in airports, where travellers have to show almost everything that they are going to bring into the plane. This rules might be consider very strict to stop acts of terrorism in planes. However, this system tries to stop acts of terrorism like the attacks in 11th September 2001 in Washington and New York, where about three thousand persons had dead. Some people might argue that the actual crisis of terrorism has begun that day. Though, maybe there are some people who feel these rules excessive, but it is possible that it could make disappear fear in some travellers who think in those attacks. 
   
   Some people might claim that we are safer than before due to security has been raised but we are not 100% safe. Also, a recent research suggests that citizens are less worried about terrorism than before. An investigation points out that immigration is the main problem for 59'2% of citizens in Spain. Most people would say that politicians from different ideological groups should join their power and fight against terrorism. In addition, people claim if politicians do not do that, terrorism will not end.
   Furthermore, there are many people who ask if we will be safe when soldiers go away from Palestine and whether war will end or not. The general opinion of Americans is that peace will not be established. 
   
   Finally, most people states that anybody is not safe at all, anywhere or anytime.  People feel that terrorism will not end if we try to stop it with more war and violence. In an article of a newspaper is written that G. Bush -The President of The United States- has said that they will continue making war with the enemy wherever he is (making reference into the conflict between Palestinian and Israeli). In other article a man gave his opinion about this. He pointed out that we should improve our relationship with Arabic culture and to recognize our fault of some of their problems, and to stop now to bombard their countries with the pretext of combating terrorism. Some people would argue that to combat terrorism we have fight with them using our mind and not weapons.
   
   It seems that terrorism will not end soon if different group politicians, from the same country, make their decisions and laws, together, trying to fight with terrorism and stop it. Thus, national terrorism will end slowly. Also it could be argued that politicians have to listen citizens more and let them participate in their decisions. It is reasonable that improving security in the country, politicians could pact with other countries to solve international terrorism problems.
   
   To sum up, we can see that there are many arguments about if our world is a safe place as a result of a war against terrorism. The arguments in favour appear less reasonable because there are many places where there is not the same security than other. Moreover, seems that making war against terrorism is to use the same violence and it will not solve the problem. Other aspect, is that it would be claimed that politicians and citizens have the same responsibility but they do not have the same authority to do what they think would end  with terrorism.  Some of the evidences show that our world is not a safe place from terrorism, but it is believed that we can improve the situation making a very strong effort to stop every kind of violence over the world.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
