    Nowadays, traffic problems are a much discussed issue and it should be solved or reduced soon, because these problems are increasing so quickly and they will not stop if we do not find a solution to improve this situation. Furthermore, traffic problems cause other consequences like accidents, which could become in deaths. Moreover, we are ending the petrol so fast due to there are plenty of cars and it causes pollution in the city, especially in the centre. In this essay, I will explain some solutions that I think could reduce the traffic problems in Madrid, which I summarize in: traffic, accidents, deaths, pollution and the fast consume of petrol.
    
    First of all, as I see it, in modern times cars are so expensive. Though there are many people who do not mind to spend this money to buy a car because they need it or they are interested in having one. But, in my own view, there are too much people or families who have more than one car, only to enjoy it and they can allow paying it. This means that more and more there are plenty of cars and it increases the traffic. To solve this, I think that the government should create a new law which does not permit having more than one car if indeed this person or family does not need it.
    
     Additionally, more and more, cars run faster than before. So, it produces more accidents and more people who death in roads. The percentage of deaths in roads because of velocity is 22% said by DGT (an institute which study all about traffic). Also, DGT has duplicated controls of velocity because of the accidents. Also, DGT said that this year controls have been respected 4% more than one year ago. In spite of all these controls, people buy faster cars.
    
    Other aspect we can improve, speaking personally, is that people who go to work by car could share their own car with other workmates who live near them. So, they will reduce the number of cars, especially, in business hours. Also, they will reduce the petrol consumption and it will be cheaper for the people who share the car. They do the same creep with the same quantity of petrol consumed but only in one car, shared with more than one person. But, this possible solution cannot be well accepted by people who do not want to depend on the other workmates and maybe they prefer go to work alone. However, if few people do this, we will reduce a little bit pollution and traffic.
    
    Another point is that many people do not like to use public transport very often, because they have less autonomy and they depend on schedules. Also, might there are lot of people who cannot use public transport due to where they live there are not good communications or because public transport do not aid them to get wherever they want. But, I strongly believe that the main reason why many people do not use public transport is because they want their own comfortness and do not want to depend on fix hours or other people to creep them. However, I feel that using public transport more often we will reduce traffic and also petrol, pollution, and accidents.
    
    By using public transport, instead of private vehicles, it would be necessary to have more public transport. For this reason, buses, trains and so on should be bigger to raise the quantity of people who will use it. This would increase the number of workers in this public service, and I believe that it would be a good idea because few people who do not work now, could get one soon.
    
    So then, in this essay, I have considered traffic problems which I have summed up, as I see it, in the following few words: plenty of cars, accidents, pollution and the problem with petrol. Furthermore, I have expressed some solutions that I think could improve our situation in Madrid. Having described traffic problems and some solutions to try to solve them, I believe that if we try to apply some of these possible solutions, making an effort, cars and traffic problems will be reduced.

