   The world is surer, but not thanks to the war against the terrorism. Eighty-four percent believe the United States is losing the "war on terror," 86 percent that the world has become a more dangerous place in the past five years, and 80 percent that a major new attack on their country was likely within the next decade. The global war against the terrorism was based on an erroneous valuation
    The priority was to demolish Sadam Husein and to restore a stable without need to take more American soldiers to the zone. This plan did not work, but it had many negative side effects.
   The first consequence is that they have sent soldiers and money to Afghanistan, which was (and probably it continues being) the real problem. The second mistake was not to use the war simply as a metaphor, but as a real strategy: the sending of troops to occupy territories failed. Osama bin Laden maybe continues well and lives in Pakistan. The reason is simple: Al Qaeda is not a territorial organization, and does not depend on the state support. The western armies do not give any more of themselves, and without recruitment they are unable to approach the new threats or the challenges in a long term.
   On the contrary, the war against the terrorism has aggravated the tensions in Close East, promoted the religious radicalism and the Arabic nationalism, and promoted to Iran as the principal country of the zone. The democratization has been a complete failure.
   The consequences of these not assumed mistakes are the contradictory speech of Bush's Administration: he yields not even an apex in the war against the terrorism, and consequently he refuses to attract to the political regional qualified forces of "terrorists" (Hamás, Hezbolá and even the Iranian regimen), and nevertheless he  is not also ready to appear no real increase of the military pressure against them. The Israeli army has been unable to disarm Hezbolá, also the soldiers of the ONU are not ready to do it, the civil war in Iraq and Iran seems to have free hand in the zone. But in Washington a real determination does not exist for extracting practical conclusions and attracting the local actors with a political clear program. The mixture of arrogance and impotence leads to a prophecy destined for be fulfilled: the conflicts that had concrete origins (Palestine, The Lebanon, Iraq) and they should be approached separately now have gathered in crowds in a global yihad. This plays directly in favour of the Iranian leaders  of Bin Laden, that precisely want to agglutinate all the existing conflicts in order to mobilize in the whole world an umma with a global reason.
But the world is surer in spite of the war against the terrorism. The real struggle against the terrorism is working: the battle in which there are no armies, either planes of combat or big speeches, but a long mobilization of policemen, experts, organisms of espionage and judicial power that monitors to the nets and concrete cells, established in West and that try to foment the mark Al Qaeda. Thus many plots have frustrated in West, thanks to the labour of the police  and the international cooperation.
The last question is how to prevent that the Moslem angry young men mobilize their conventional coreligionists. The response rests precisely in attacking separately the different questions: the conflict Palestinian - Israeli, the democratization of Close East and the Islam in West. 

