
For years the capital of Spain has been facing a problem that grows every day: the traffic. Every day the citizens see their city full of cars, motorbikes, buses, and others ways of transport, and it affect to the society in different points of their life. All days a lot of people have to go out of their houses with a lot of time to go to their jobs because they know they will have a lot of traffic to go to the centre of the city, or to go to the outskirts too. Other people decide to take the public transport thinking that they won't take traffic, but this is not true. The reality is that all days in any way of transport you will have traffic in the city at some hours, but this is not all, traffic will affect us in summer too, but the double or more. Today, in 2006, Madrid have a heavy problem in each day of her life.

My own opinion of this is that the problem of the actual traffic will not be easy to solve but we must try to finish with it. I strongly believe that people have to use more ways of transport like the subway, or the train, which won't have traffic at any hour, only more people at some hours, like at the morning. The subway is an effective and fast way to go to a lot of different places of the city. Also, this way of transport have the problem that there isn't subway in some parts of the city, or different towns of the city where people live and where they have to go, but actually the community of Madrid is extending the subway to more towns and places of Madrid, like Alcobendas, San Sebastián de los Reyes, Tres Cantos, etc...

Also, people could think that the subway and train are a little bit expensive way of transport for all days to go and to come, but it is not true either.  Actually, exist different subscriptions for our use and are interesting because for example if one journey is one euro, ten journeys will be six euros, and this is good for us. Also, if the ministry puts the prices cheaper, people will consider more seriously the option of the public transport.

For my part, I believe that a good solution could be the creation of new ways, roads, highways, ring roads, and new alternatives for the people who have to take their cars everyday to go to the city or to the outskirts, to industrial estates, big business, etc... With this solution we should go anywhere with different ways and the traffic will decrease and people will stay on time anywhere. In the other hand, it would be a little expensive for the community, and slowly, with big constructions, etc... But I think that it would be money well spent for our comfort, and it would be better for us in the long term.

I think people must have only one car for one family, if this were true, the traffic will disappear a lot because people should need to go to different destinations, one for each component of the family that need the car to go anywhere. But it would be a little bit uncomfortable or annoying for the driver, but the time that the driver will spend going to the different places is the time that all have win with the reduction of the traffic.

So then, we have saw the different problems that traffic causes in our life and different solutions to reduce it,  and we have talked about the public transport too, that is a good solution and way to move in the city fast and cheap, while the ministry look for other solution like new alternatives for the drivers. In my opinion it won't be a solution of one day, it would go slowly, but tomorrow we will see the difference.
