
If we search terrorism in a dictionary, we will find that is the use of violence, especially murder and bombing, in order to achieve political aims or to force a government to do something. Nowadays, terrorism is almost an usual shadow in our lives, a shadow that every day plays with the life of someone, and a present issue in our society; it is in TV, the media, newspapers, radio, magazines, and it has become a common subject to talk about because people are becoming more aware of it, and thinking about it. But inside this subject there are different kinds of terrorism like political, economic, linguistic, religious, of sovereignty... In this essay I am going to discuss the controversial subject of terrorism, trying to analyse different perspectives.

Some people and groups of our society argue that terrorism is only a way to obtain something through the use of violence and fear, and these people think the aim justify the means. First, the use of the violence is not a good way to obtain something, or at least for the part which is threaten to do something. Usually, the partisans of this way of conduct  are fighting for an ideal of a group of people, but not of the greater part and try to frighten, to threat and event to mistreat the opposed and the result of this action are the victims of terrorism, that in general used to be people that are not inside the problem. It hurts the society and makes grow the opponents of terrorism, partisans of the communication and the dialogue.

On the other hand there are some parts of the society that are forced to lean this kind of actions due to the fear and the panic that suppose to confront with the terrorist part because if they bring face to face with this part they will suffer the consequences of the terrorism due to the nearness with the part involved, the relation with this part (family, friends, political...) or something like this. This part is a big part of the victims of terrorism. This fear makes that the group of the partisans of violence seems more big and general that in fact it is. But not all this part of the society act by the fear and worry of the situation. There are some parts that lean these acts in silence because they are involved indirectly, and they could have some kind of advantages or some relation with these groups but they are the passive part of the congregation, and they do not declare inside this group. 

Finally, exist a big part of the society that is against the terrorism and this kind of acts. This part is partisan of the dialogue to obtains anything, and to try the two opposite parts come to an understanding, but always without violence, murders, bombs, threats, etc... With this agreement the two parts could win and could not have victims, because the two parts could win something in the subject.

This last point is rather convincing and seems a logical argument, because it is the only one where the two parts are agree with the result (more or less), and all parts win in the particular subject, no one suffer the pressure of the opposite, no one suffer a grave setback, and no one is a victim of violence, of terrorism or of the opposite part.

So then, terrorism is a common fact in our  lives, and it affect to the society because there are a lot of victims of terrorism, a lot of people living day to day with fear and acting in a particular way due to the panic and the worry of their lives, their families, their homes or their jobs. The violence is not a good way to negotiate something; at least it is not good for all the components of the society, so we have to lean the communication between the different groups of the society to make disappear the pressures and the fear of some parts of the society.



