 In contrast to the great evolution in economic and technological grasps, some 
social issues are acquiring so importance and seriousness that governments have 
considered a national need to solve them. Every day, we can see on television, radio or 
Internet, all kind of tragic news that show the critical social situation we are living in. 
Personally speaking, I consider the most worrying issues these days are violence against 
women, poverty in Third World countries and terrorism, and I will try to argue in this 
essay these are the present gravest matters.

      Traditionally, the role of women has been limited to housework like cooking, 
cleaning or taking care of the children. Nowadays, women are not only undervalued, but 
ill-treated, too. We can verify it only by turning on television or radio, or by running 
one's eye over any newspaper, where it is more and more frequent to hear about women 
killed by her husbands, boyfriends or former mates. In my opinion, it is a serious 
problem which must be solved in order to grant women the dignity they have seen 
deprived of and, thus, respect human rights they are allowed to enjoy as human beings 
they are. However, men also suffer this kind of mistreated and are usually unknown by 
mass media and authorities, for they refuse to accuse ill-treat either because of shame, 
of being not believed or because of fear. Even so, the sum of women hurt is bigger 
enough than men since historically and biologically women are weaker than men.

      But not only do many women want to see returned her rights as person. 40 per 
cent of world population lives in an extreme poverty situation, surviving with less than 
1.5 euros per day. It has been calculated the investment assigned for both health and 
education in 38 underdeveloped countries is only a quarter of the sum of money used to 
solving their external debt. It means that almost 20 per cent of the world countries 
present a whole illiteracy and grave healthy matters, as AIDS, malaria, cholera or 
starvation, while in the First World countries is deeply worrying the increase in the 
number of people dead because of illnesses related with an excessive feeding, as 
obesity. However, anybody could discuss me poverty is not only a serious problem in 
Third World countries, but in developed countries, too, because approximately 9 million 
inhabitants of the latter are living under the poverty threshold. In spite of this argument, 
I would refute it by asserting that, in my opinion, poverty in Third World is a problem 
graver than in the First World, because while in the most of developed nations there are 
a few minimum social services as public hospital, houses of refuge and a most of 
population wealthy enough to help that few percent of unfortunate people, in 
underdeveloped states there is neither those minimum services nor that economic 
contrasts between rich and poor and, as a result of these lacks, its inhabitants must rely 
on one another in their deplorable situation of neediness in order to survive.

      Nevertheless, developed states also have to face unfair deaths because of other 
motive: the terrorism. It seems to me terrorist movements have gathered strength with 
the appearance of Islamic fundamentalist groups, whose actions have been more and 
more frequent and bloodthirsty since the September 11th, 2001 attempts against the 
Twin Towers. Terrorist groups like ETA, Al-Qaeda or Hamas focus their efforts on 
frightening the population by threats and murders, in order to reach their goals. 
However, it could be supported that anyone who live in a democratic nation is free for 
express one's desires and aspirations and defend them, but, my own view of this is that 
neither violence nor intimidation are defensible as ways to reach those objectives. 

      In summary, I consider the present world population should face to violence 
against women, poverty in underdeveloped countries and terrorism, which appears to 
me as the gravest current problems because they violate basic human rights which 
everybody should can enjoy, like liberty or safety. For that reason, I strongly believe it 
is necessary applying effective steps which could solve the dramatic situation we are 
crossing over, although these are so serious issues that no solution could be considered 
as definitive. About violence against women, I think it could be possible solutions to 
encourage women to denounce any kind of ill-treat, and thus, offer them protection 
when they finally have split up, or worsen penalties for aggressors. Concerning to 
poverty in Third World countries, I would maintain governments of developed states 
should give a per cent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to the underdeveloped 
ones, but also the administrations of these disfavoured nations must be controlled in 
order to avoid them from using that sum of money for their own benefit. Finally, in 
relation with terrorism, I feel a viable answer to solve it could be the aggravation of 
punishment by the imposition of the life imprisonment and the increase of police corps 
in the streets in order to improve the safety of each nation. The application and 
effectiveness of those steps would be a long and hard way, but they are the first actions 
to achieve a world in which everyone will be treated and live as deserves.  
