

Through the 20th century immigration has a constant which respond to different situation. For example, at the beginning of the century, many Irish people moved to the States searching a better life, and a lot of Spanish had to leave their country due to the political situation that arised from the Civil War. Nowadays, the Western Europeis a group of countries with stability and a good standard of living where democracy as spread. In these days, those who move aren't from Europe but from underdeveloped countries. This issue is developing an atmosphere of tension because in countries such as Britain, Germany or France, immigrants occupy a very high percetage of the total population. In the essay I will tackle the immigration problem using opposite opinions to explain what are the pros and cons of this issue.

It is widely accepted the immigration policy of the Spanish government has been unable to reach a string of objectives; immigrants doesn't stop increasing and the legal immigration is resentful because they can't reach the demands of economy and society.

There are a lot of people who are against immigration for different reasons. Most people, especially in the working class, are becoming more radical against immigrants. They think that it's unfair that a person who is and live in her/his own country is unemployed meanwhile an immigrant has a job or that an oficial defened flat will be first given to an immigrant than to a worker in his/her own country. It is resonable to defend that people who was borned in a certain country, should be first in obtaining some thins, such as the examples, than an immigrant. In addition, there can be problems with the education system. In Spain we still haven't got problems, but in Germany there are people who complain that at schools there are too many Turkish that Germans can't learn the different subjects because the Turkish pupils have to learn German. England has a lot of immigrants too and it appears that an English can't already say "British society" because it's branded of being a racist. Now, an English have to call in society as "multicultural". But, one of the strongest arguments against is that most of the immigrants belong to mafias or contribute to the increasing of crime, (which means the increasing of the lack of safety in the streets), for the simple reason that they don't find a job. May people feel that Europe will probably become like USA, where only in Washington there are 2000 murders each year. It's estimated that, each year, 20.000 foreigners cross the frontier of the south of Spain without permission. However, it seems that not all the immigrants are like tose. There are many who come to get a job honestly and work to give their children a good education in life. There are a lot of preconceptions in society.

On the other hand there are those who are in favour of immigration having their ideas in the fact that everybody have th right to have a worthy life because anybody can choose neither the country nor the family. It is widely agreed that there is a very big problem of inequality and injustice in the world, but not everybody is agreed to backing immigrants up to come. There are some who condemn the humillation, the social alienation and the explotation that immigrants suffer in the rich countries. The vacant jobs for them are the ones that are bad paid, with the worst working conditioon and with a high lack of job security: construction, agriculture and domestic job. In fact there are many immigrants working in Almeria (where there is a sea of greenhouses), in the kind of jobs that Spanish people refuse to do. Another good reason to be in favour of immigration is the on econcerning to the birth rate. There are reports that claim that a society with such a little birth rate (1,6 children per woman in Spain) won't be able to bear the present pension system. There are many voices who point out that immigrants, who are used to have a lot of children in their cultures, will increase child populations (as it is happening now), so pensions will be guaranteed for future generations. This might be true, but the migratory movement should be controlled, tightening up legislation and intensifying the vigilance in the frontier so that things like the one in Ceuta y Melilla of some weeks ago, won't happen again.

There are also people who have mid-point opinions. They are in favour of immigration, because they understand it is necessary, but in a controlled way. They think that immigration should be regularized through the hiring of workers in their original country because it would be less unemployed immigrants who feel compelled to belong to mafias as a way  of outlive. They don't see well irregular immigration, because it creates problems however, many people said that the fight to this kind of immigration doesn't mean make the immigrant's life a missey, restricting their more basic rights until reaching intolerable limits and leading them to crime to survive. This could be considered a realistic perspective because not all the thins are black and white; usually they are grey. Immigration neither is all negative nor all possitive, it's a delicate matter which should be treated with its pros and cons.

In conclusion, there are many arguments in favour and against immigration, but there are also arguments which are in the middle. Some of them point out that immigration is dangerous becuase it intensifizes crime in Europe, but it can't be denied that we have a serious problem with the low birth rate and immigrants tend to increase the child population. It is reasonable to say that, as we need immigrants to come, they should come, but controlling their entrance. Immigration problem should be resolved as much as possible with a combined cooperation between rich and poor countries, because sometimes se nos va de las manos and causes problems such as the ones in Parins during these days.

