

In the Western world democracy has spread and, consequently, we try to consolidate equality rights and values such as freedom. In Spain it has been recently approved a new law which lets homosexual couples get married and adopt children. It has been the first important law of the new government and it has brought a lot of controversy due to its progresive nature. In this essay I will argue why I am in favour of this law, but also I will use this issue as an excuse to set out the two Spains.

I think homosexual people should have the same rights as the people who are heterosexual. Gays and lesbians are people who feel, who can be critical to things, they pay taxes and vote. They have the same duties as everyone else, and, as citizens, they should have the same rights as well. On the other hand, there are people who think that their marriage is inmoral because it goes against nature. Conventionally, what is natural and correct is the enlace between a man and a woman to have children in order to guarantee the continuity of the human race. A homosexual marriage is sterile. However, I don't think this is important because they can adopt children. They are as normal as everyone else and they deserve respect.

Another controversial point is the adoption of children. Personally speaking, I believe they should have the right to do it. What a child from a poor country needs is to be fed, a good education, a comfortable house and love. The child will be happy like this. In addition, it's proved that children, whose parents are homosexual, grouw up as mentally healthy as the ones who have a father and a mother. In spite of this, some people argue that a child should have both the man and the woman examples, because they [-] different values. This people say also that if the boy or the girl is brought up in such atmosphere, he or she will  be homosexual. But, I don't hink this is true because homosexual people come from heterosexual couples. We should leave aside that kind of prejudices: there are a lot of heterosexual couples who don't take notice of their children and leave them with such a freedom that at the end the parents don't know really their son or daughters.

There is another aspect related to homosexual marriages: what we called family. Some people defend strongly that a family is formed by a man, a woman and the children they have together. They mantain that is has been like this throughout history and insist on saying that the new law, [-] by the government, which defend the rights of homosexuals, commits an outrage against the meaning of family. On account of this, they were involved in a man meeting some months ago. Nevertheless I don't agree with their way of thinking. Society has progressed because there had been changes. This new law doesn't destroy the meaning of family, but it simply extends it. Isn't a family a single woman and her child although there is no father? In countries like Denmark you can see homosexual couples wandering peacefully with their children. This is still impossible in Spain because many people would make comments, grance at them or even insult them. I feel that these kind of people who oppose the rights of homosexuals, are the same as the one who was against the women's vote fifty years ago.

To conclude, I'll say that there are two different and opposite ways of thinking about the homosexual marriage and the adoption it can implies. The ones who are in favour bese their reasons in values such as equality and respect to everybody, including the others who don't belong to the majority. The people who are against respond to historical and conservative reasons. But if society has arrived where we are, it's because there had been changes which have lead us to a modern society with freedom and rights. I tend to believe that children who are borned in spain will see homosexual marriage as normal as the heterosexual one because they will have been borned in the begining of what will be its consolidation in society.

