


        These days the war against terrorism is one of the most important issues on the international field. After the attack to the twin towers in New York in 2001, the president of the United states of America, George W. Bush,declared the war against terrorism in order to make the world a safer place. With that idea inside the mind, the United states declared the war to Afganistan and Iraq, moreover the security levels have been increased inside the american territory until levels unknown since the end of the Cold War. In that essay i will try to point out the different arguments about if the world is safer because of the war against terrorism or not.
        
        On the one hand, it could be argued that, of course, the world is safer as result of the war against terrorism. Because of the intervention of the american troops inside Middle Orient that area is now under control. Cities as Jenin, which before the war it was a hiding-place for the international terrorism, and under control of taliban's tirany are now under control of a democratic goverment. Second, the security inside the american terrory has been increased, now the people can live securer than before.Although it could be true, the reality is that, although that militar actions have dismantled goverments which lean terrorist organizations like Al-Qaeda, that areas of Middle Orient are living a great inestability and the control hasn't been reached still neither in Middle Orient, where every day people die, nor in Europe, as we have could see in the attacks over Madrid and London.
        
        On the other hand,it is posible to argue that the war is not only safer but also insecurer after September 11 and the declaration of war of the american goverment. One of the main arguments in favour of that points of view is that that war against terrorism and the interventionism of the United States in Middle Orient have made that terrorist groups declare the war to Occident, as it has get shown in the attacks over Madrid and London. That people think that the best that could be done is to bring the american troops out from Afganistan and Iraq and to stop the war terrorism in order to bring the peace again, because that is really a problem of musulman countries and we shouldn't intervent. This point is rather convincing, however, it is not realistic, because the result of bringing the american troops out from these countries would be to make it more difficult to consolidate the democratic goverments that the musulman people have chosen.
        
        Finaly, there are some people who argue that although the world is not  a securer place because of the war against terrorism still, we have to continue working for reaching it but since another way. First, we, the goverments of the first world, shouldn't go out from Middle Orient, we must help them but not through the ocupation. Second, they point out as solution for reaching the peace introducing democratic values in order to build a free land in which the people could choose. Moreover, although that group has made attacks in Europe it doesn't mean that they have declared the war to occident, because that violence is bigger in Middle Orient, where in 2004 they made 96 attacks over the civil population. This seems to be a logical argument because, although that problem is really a problem of musulman countries, we musn't leave them because that problem affects to us. And because of that we must introduce democratics values and economic development.
        
        In conclusion, there are different perspectives about the war against terrorism. One of the main argument in favour is that because of that war some lands of Middle Orient as Afganistan, one of the most important hiding-place where the terrorist were before the war is now under control, and the security has increased. On the other hand, one of the main arguments against is that the terrorist attacks over occident has increased as it is shown in the attacks in Europe. And the best that we should do is bring the troops out and leave that area as it is now. Another point of view that we have seen is that although the world is not safer as result of that war, U.S.A and the european countries musn't leave that area without doing nothing but they have to develop the economy and democracy that allow themselves resolve that problem. That last point of view seems to be the most realistic solution, but we should start now whit that kind of solution, because it will be imposible to solution that problem through the force as we have been doing until now.     


