


     In our present society, we are living the changes very quickly. Every day it begins new challenges that the society has to take care of. We can see on television a lot of examples of how is changing our society because of some social problems that increase day after day without a clear solution. In that essay i'm going to argue that, in my opinion, the three social issues most worrying these days are the violence, at all its forms, the ilegal immigration and the political corruption.
. 
     From my personal point of view, the violence is the greatest problem that affects the present society. That volence increases day after day, whatever we look we see violence ( on television, in the newspapers, on the streets,etc.). Every day it appears news about violent murders, terrorism, war, domestical agressions, child criminality, sexuasl crimes,and so on. Of course, could be argued that the violence is something that has always come with the human being, it's something intrinsic to the human behavior. Throughout the history we can see some examples of the levels that the violence has reached at different ages by events like the Jack the ripper chase at 19 century, which supposed a great shockat its time. However, i disagree that opinion because , although the violence has always come with the human being, at our present time it has reached levels unknown until now, and we are used to that and see it as something normal.
     
     Another social issue that i feel is one of the most worrying these days is the ilegal immigration. That kind of immigration has reached more than ever that last years.The stadistics show that Spain is the first land inside the EU in which that level has reached most at the last years. Some people feel that that is not a problem but a solution, because there are a lot of jobs in our country that the local people don't want to do, and that immigration could do. Furthermore the immigrates would increase the population of our land, what is, in fact, decreasing. However, i don't see that ilegal immigration as a problem by itself, i think that it is a great idea that the people could choose the place that they prefer to live, and i agree that, but i see the ilegal immigration as a problem by the consequences that come with it. On the one hand, it is a great opportunity for the ilegal organisations like the mafia for making bussiness. That mafias charge the immigrates the saves of theirs families, and use that people for transporting drugs and the girls for winning money through the prostitution. On the other hand, the extreme right's groups are making use of that immigration as excuse to increase the violence inside the society.
     
     Finally, i think that the political corruption is reaching worrying levels that last years. In our own land, a clear example of that corruption could be clear seen at the contruction's world. One fact that shows that kind of corruption is all what has gone on at Marbella that last months.And that is just a simple example of what is going on in the whole spanish coast. It could be argued that that is not really a social issue, because it only affects to some social groups and not to the whole society. However, i feel that it is a problem that affects to the whole society because it is in that corruption where the problems of the housing begin.
     
     To sum up, we have seen that, from my personal point of view, the three social issues most worrying these days are directly linked to the violence, the ilegal immigration and the political corruption. Unless it is not changed it will have a lot of problems that we are going to leave to our sons. My opinion is that we as society should fight against these problems from the origin of them directly, using our legislation as weapon, making harder the sentences linked to the crimes about corruption, violence and human traffic.  

      

