A recent study indicates that there are many topics people worry about in their country; some of them are terrorism, immigration, domestic violence, economy... Research suggests that one of the most important of all is the education system, and there are many different perspectives related to this subject. In this essay I will talk about a particular education system, the Spanish one, and the different points of view there are, concerning if it's a good education system or not.

Some people would argue that this education system is a good one: according to some teachers, subjects given at school build up the ability of both memorizing and argue among students, these subjects are diverse, the number of immigrants is increasing, which means Spanish students are in contact with different cultures; the number of students who choose going to university is high... 

On the other hand, it seems that there are many deficiencies in this education system, according to other teachers and professionals, and that this system is one of the worst in Europe: a high number of students fail many of the compulsory subjects, especially during the period of E.S.O.; many of them pretend to leave school before 16, subjects like Music or Art are underrated, exams are extremely easy sometimes, students find problems later at higher grades with Languages and another subjects, because they haven't been enough prepared; general level is, usually, very low...

Also, it has been suggested that the Spanish education system is not as bad as it seems; it has its lacks, but there are many positive things also: some people think Spanish students have a very high level in subjects like Maths and Sciences. The problem comes when we talk about Languages: the level of the Spanish students is quite low, compared to other European countries. At school, students are not used to writing, which is something very popular and common in English and French schools. Also, the level of English in Spain is poor; it seems that teachers are not as good as they should be. Moreover, there are people who believe that, although this education system could be improved, a good thing it has is that school is free (at least public school) and that people coming from different parts of the world have the opportunity of learning and getting a degree. 

Furthermore, it seems reasonable to say that the Spanish system is not a perfect one at all; it appears to have so many deficiencies, like the ones I mentioned before. But it seems also to be true that, for example, not all the students who want to leave school before 16 want to go because they find the education system terrible, it might be also a matter of the education they receive at home. Maybe, if their parents had shown them since they were children that education is vital for their future, they probably would have accepted better the idea of attending to the classes and not leaving studies. Also, it appears to be true that the general level in Spanish schools is quite low, and this is one of the things that should be corrected, because this is one of the main causes of the great amount of failures. In addition, the problem with the underrated subjects, such as Music, it appears to be more a problem of our society. Generally, we tend to believe that working as an architect or a doctor is better than being a musician or an actor. That is something which is probably out of our control, because it has maybe become a cliché.

In conclusion, the Spanish education systems has weaknesses, but also advantages. Those weaknesses seem to be sometimes related to the education system but sometimes not. Besides, they could be solved in many ways, like promoting the general culture in children, since a very early age, in order to avoid the future problems these children might have at school.
