      Nowadays, there are many different types of problems in our society: we just have to watch the news on TV or listen to the radio and we will be able to confirm this. However, there are many sorts of different problems: the ones considered not so important, and the most worrying of them all. In this essay I will talk about the three most worrying, in my opinion, social issues.

      First, I think one of them is terrorism. In Spain, we have suffered this for many years, like, for example, the vandal acts and murders of the terrorist band E.T.A. since the year 1960, and, more recently, the last tragic events from the 11th of March, in the year 2004.
Hundreds of people have died in unfair circumstances, because of terrorism. A high percentage of the people in Spain know someone who has been involved in this type of attacks. 
However, some people may think that terror attacks are now more controlled, and they might feel safer thanks to the security, that's why they do not really consider terrorism as a very important problem. Nevertheless, I think the idea of "that will never happen to me" is not very useful. If we do not stop terrorism and we do not fight against it, we will never be completely safe.
	
      Second, it seems to me that another important problem these days is immigration. 
I am not against it, but I would consider it as a problem when that immigration is "massive". At the end, these people who go to European countries in search of a better life, sometimes they finally end even worse than they were in their countries: many women are forced to work as prostitutes, many men work for more than 14 hours a day, many children end up stealing and committing crimes...
This is a very delicate subject: many people are against immigration, so they immediately refuse to their coming. However, whether we like it or not, a high percentage of the people living today in Spain are immigrants. They contribute to the economy of our country, to the cultural interchange... Which are positive things for us.
The only thing we should control is that massive reception of immigrants, coming every day from many different parts of the world, especially from South America, to avoid the problems I mentioned before.

	Finally, the last problem I will mention here is domestic violence. We are sick of watching news about it, but we do not seem to become aware of how serious this subject is.
Many women allow their husbands to mistreat them, because they always end up forgiving them. This is a great mistake: I think from the first time your partner hits you, you should abandon him immediately. Nobody has the right of hitting you.
Some people feel that this is not the right choice: you must always give one opportunity, because everyone has faults. I personally believe that is the great error of many women: when you give that opportunity, then they will not take you seriously, and that's when problems begin. It has been proved that the women who act this way, end up in very bad conditions, when they are not killed by their husbands.

	In conclusion, all the problems mentioned before are the ones which I think should be solved, because I consider that terrorism, immigration and domestic violence are enough worrying to skip. The first and the third one because there are human lives in danger, and the second one, because it's our obligation to help people who want a better life. If we fight together, we could get anything we wish.


