
	The latest notices about inmigration in France have shown a delicated environment between inmigrants and the french politic system.. Also, we can deduce from stadistics that the mayor part of french citizens use to vote conservator politics who doesn't favour the brotherhood between inmigrants and the rest of french population. In this essay i would like to give my point of view in reference to the delicated conjuncture which live France refering to inmigration and the politic actuation.

	Some french politics, like the minister Nicolas Sarcozi, have made  hard declarations saying that inmigrants in France shouldn't have the same rights thant the rest of the french citizens. In my opinion, such declarations are very wrong indeed because as Human Rights defend, all persons must have  the same rights and oportunities without diference of race or sex. On the other hand, there are many directives in France which would never give high employ status to inmigrants notwithunderstanding the person would be perfectly prepared to, but, in fact, surely such inmigrants could work eficiently if were given the appropiate opportunity.

	Another important fact is the way of separating inmigrants from the rest of french citizens, building distanced neighbourhoods which contributes to emphatise the social exclussion. I think that all citizens should live together, sharing neighbourhoods. Such mixture would contribute to learn from each other, to fusionate cultures and create a positive atmosphere. However, plenty of frenchs preffer not to share costumes with inmigrants because the fault of  confidence makes them be afraid of different races and cultures. I think that if this kind of tabu would dissapear, everyone would learn more than they think from the rest of  cultures.

	Third of all, exist a reality that shows that the mixture between races already exists. It's easy to find families in France where one of the parents becames from a different race. I believe that's highly positive because the sons will grow  on a respectfull and tolerant environment. Racism still happening and several families preffer not to share costumes and of course  not marry with persons from another race or religion. For ending I would like to say that the real advance on french society will exist until each race would see the rest without feeling differences on mixed marriages.

	In this essay I have argued about the differences which exist between races in France ,which repercute to different levels of the society. The inmigration politic sistem, the foult of oportunities for them and on the whole the inexistence of respect between races doesnt favour to a developed society as french's is. I suggest that one possible alternative to erradicate these problems must be start to educate from the begining. The today's children will form tomorrow's society. If each society and race would learn about the rest the change to a tolerable  humanity would be possible.
