
	Latest notices and scores from Real Madrid have suggested a crisis stage on its futbolistic system. As well, latest elections have created a difficult environment because of the continuous attacks between the candidates. In this essay I am going to give my point of view according to the begining of Real Madrid season, the last victory versus Football Club Barcelona and the different perspectives from the supporters.

	The national league for Real Madrid started full of ilusion for the team and supporters they haved faith new player adquisitions. My point of view is that players like Cannavaro which reinforces the deffensive line, midfields as Diarra and Emerson  as well goalscorers like Reyes and Van Nistelrooy becoming from the Premier League contribute to change the playing scheema which didn't  worked these past years. Some supporters think that these changes aren't enough because still playing some players considered as old and useless. On the other hand these considered old players as Raul , Helguera, Guti or Roberto Carlos give to the team experience when bad ressults appears.

	This past match Real Madrid won Barcelona in a difficult match were Barça was favourite as stadistics shown. I personally think that Capello's strategy for this match reinforcing the defense and resorting to the counterattack was effective and worked with one of the strongest teams a spanish league. Press and football supporters think on different ways saying that Real Madrid victory was possible because of the absence of Samuel Etoo and the substitution of Marquez for Thuram on the defensive line. However only two players cannot be the reason of Real Madrid victory having Real done o good match.

	The Real Madrid crisis doesn't  consists just on scoring results. This past summer we have assisted to an electoral carrer which, from my point of view has turned into a mediatic fight between the candidates. Some supporters considered it as normal and entertaining, they considered as right the opposition between  the candidates which offered differents qualified football players if they were given the responsibility of directing the club. I personally think that this kind of opposition is not constructive for the team. The candidates should gather their power to build a stronger team with each adquisitions. The work based on all candidates team would make a stronge the directive system of Real Madrid.

	In this essay I have argued about the supporsed crisis which exists in Real Madrid football club which repercutes either to the footballistic system and the political context. I suggest that if the supporting mass keep the faith on the trainer and the team faces each match match considering it important as a final match, positive results will arrive and the team could make a positive season with the posibility of winning an important title as National or Champions league.

	
