
	It appears that the introduction of a driving license "points system" in Spain has caused different reactions as shown in the press during the last months. On the one hand, stadistic have prooved that traffis incidents have been reduced, by other hand, some people have started to traffic with points, either buying or selling, in order to save their driving license when they loose their own points. In this essay I am going to give my point of view reffering to the consequences which appeared with the new system of the driving license.

	Some spanish politics have celebrated the decrease  of the road accidents since the points programme started. I personally think that is a good notice such redution isn't enough because many incidents still happening in spanish roads. However, many notices seems consider the accidents reduction as a victory as a case achieved but, in fact, the balances must be considered as a starting point because there is a lot of work left until deaths would be reduced to the minimun.

	Another reality is that during the last monts is easy to find plenty of advertisements on car and driving web-pages wher people sell their own points. Obiously that kind of advertisements are forbiden by law and considered as a crime but these fraudulent advertisements still appearing on webs. For some people, this kind of activities  suppose an easy way to earn money, and sometimes the politic of selling  works by auction. Otherwise that kind of behaviour must be persecuted by law and cosidered as a hard foult that deserves it respective punishment.

	Third of all os the politic of points of rewarding good drivers with extra points. I personally think that is a good way of motivating the correct behaviour on our roads. By other hand, that kind of system is seemed by some people like a way of feeding fraudulent actions of such "license points " sellers use to practice. On the whole, if a bad driver looses it own points seems logical as well to reward  the good ones with advantages as consider to obtain some extra points.

	In this i have argued about the facts that appeared as consequence of the introduction of the new system of points concerning to the spanish driving license. I personally think that this method, that works in europe since years, is going to reduce the amount of accidents and deaths on our roads but the result of such interesting will be clearly visible during the following years until the rule would be stabilized. Spanish population must realize that safety on roads is necesary to advance and reach a balanced society.
