	There are lots of problems that can worry to our society. However, although there are many problems can be interesting, this essay will consider three worrying social issues: the tobacco, the alcohol's advertising and the human cloning. My own view of these problems is that they concern almost everybody, for this reason, this essay is going to explain and give them some solutions.
	
      First of all, the tobacco and the smoking is a worrying problem. It can be caused for the ban on smoking in most enclosed public spaces and pubs, whether they serve food or not. This has been quite a controversial issue which has caused deep divisions of opinion. I would like to say that Spain and Greece have the highest number of smokers in the European Union. Spain has the dubious honour of having the highest number of women smokers in the EU. On one side of the argument are those who believe that people that smoke in pubs and restaurants pose a grave risk to the health of those around them, who breathe the smoke and become passive smokers. On the other hand, some other people maintain that the issue is one of personal choice.
	
      Complicating the question is the financial impact of the ban. Tax on cigarettes is 
a huge source of money for the government and the tobacco industry is one of the most important of the world. Moreover bars, pubs... owners lose money because of the ban. Then chain-smokers have to go to smoke outdoors- in winter the temperature is very cold and if they don't wrap up well , they will be ill and they couldn't go to their jobs- and they become work time in play, relax... time. Nevertheless a report points out that healthy people who smoke are twice as likely to suffer heart attacks as those who do not smoke, and smokers are cutting their life expectancy rate by up to tern years. A lung cancer can also be produced by smoking.
      
      Another it is the alcohol's advertising. I believe Spain alcoholic drinks are among the most heavily advertised products. According to the World Heart Organisation spending on indirect promotional activities such as sponsorship-including of the sports teams  and events and music concerts having particular appeal to the young people- ,contests, is around six times higher than spending on direct advertising.
      
      For my part I feel that alcohol advertising industries argues that as alcohol is a legal product it should be legally  for it to be advertised, and that restrictions on alcohol advertising would have adverse effects on the alcohol market and on the media. Finally it also claims that restrictions are not justified as advertising is concerned with promoting sales of individual brands and there is no evidence of a casual link between advertising and the overall level of alcohol consumption or the amount of alcohol-related harm. However most of the schoolchildren have their first alcoholic drink at 13. They are too young to drink alcohol. It is because the alcohol in Spain is quite cheap: a litre of rum, vodka... can be bought in a supermarket for less than six Euros.
      
       The third is the human cloning. Since Polly, the first and true genetically modified designer sheep, there has been a flurry of claims that humans have been, or soon will be, cloned. Some people are agree with it and others think it's no possible acceptable. People, who believe human cloning should be a reality, think that with technique many people will be cured of their diseases. Some scientists are using cloning to create stem cells. The ultimate aim is to create clones stem cells from the DNA of a patient with a degenerative illness. These cells can then be turned into whatever types of cells are needed to treat their damaged organs. It could one day lead to cure for diabetes, Alzheimer's or heart diseases. On the other hand people who disagree with it have different points to refuse it. First they think there will always be a risk that genetic technology will be used to created designer babies. They consider it is a procedure that is simply too dangerous to use to produce a human baby. Moreover according to scientists less than ten per cent of non- human cloning attempts are successful, and many of the pregnancies result in miscarriage or deformities. My personal opinion of this is that human cloning supposes a hope to cure degenerative diseases but I also think it goes against the nature, that it is a manipulation of the reality.
      
      In conclusion, this paper has focused on three worrying issues. The main ideas have been covered: the ban on smoking has lots of advantages, specially, in non-smokers, and disadvantages too; second, how the alcohol advertising can affect to the young people and finally, if it is correct the human cloning. One possible solution to the first problem could be putting up the price of tobacco and that way people would smoke less and the government would follow receiving his taxes. To the next problem, a way of partly solving the problem might be teaching children at school what they have to do when their classmates or friends give them alcoholic drinks. To the last I think there isn't any complete solution, and I believe that we have to wait for decades to know it.
      
      
	
