
According to some young people, most of the time spent at university is completely wasted. Many people think going to university is the same as being at home,they thing they are wasting their time there. In Spain the Compulsory Secondary Education is until sixteen years old, then you go to Higher Education and then to University,which are not compulsory, so we suppose that people who go there are interested in learning. In this essay I intend to show my personal opinion about wasted time at university.

First, I feel that many people waste their time because they are in class doing other kind of things instead listening to the teacher`s explanation, although the explanation is not always the best way to make a good use of time, it depends on the subject. Nevertheless the are also many students who do not waste their time because they are listening to the explanation, that in my opinion is the best way to make a good use of time.

Second, I think that other way of wasting time at university is to be outside class doing several things not related to the course, like chating about the weekend or smoking joints. However there are other people who do not waste their time even if they are not in class because they are studing in the library or working in the computers, or at the corridors doing homework or reading something. I personally believe that if a student is at the University, even if is not in class, should make a good use of time doing any kind of work.

Third, I feel that people who waste their time are usually well-off people who do not care about earning money to live because their families are going to support them during the career, four years, five, six, seven, eight...or as much as they need because it does not matter how many years they require to end their studies up. Nevertheless there are also many lower middle class people who waste also their time, but I think most of people who waste their time is well-off people who do not care about how to mantain themselves.

To conclude it only remain to add that I think that people should make an effort to not waste their time because there are many people who can not go to University, because there are no vacancies left or there are not enough. I have presented some ways of wasting time on University and also how to make a good use of it. I have considered the kind of people who waste their time too, and also that unfortunately not everybody can go to University.

