                          
Since civilization began humans have paid attention to animals habits. People used to observe what kind of food animals ate and if the animal did not die they ate the same food as well. But in our present society nobody goes to the country side to observe what kind of food do the animals eat; that could be really funny, or what do the animals do when they are ill.
In modern times there are scientist who investigate those things. We use animals and animals products for food, clothing and pharmaceutical products. Sometimes humans need to use them to make their life more comfortable. The aim of this essay is to show my personal view about the use of animals to make humans life more comfortable.

According to the introduction, It seems to me that humans need animals specially for food because we are also animals, so we have to eat as well as animals do. We need food to survive, It is the life cycle. However there are people who say that we can eat only vegetables, to not make animals suffer. When I hear that, I think, why? I think eat animals is inside the life cycle, we need meat and fish to be healthy. Nowadays scientist have invented some techniques to kill animals without suffering. Nevertheless there are some people who do not care about animals suffering and kill them anyway, but this is not very common. I personally feel that there are some animals like cows, pigs, chikens, that there are raised by humans to be eaten. Humans produce them for food.

Second, I believe that we also have to use animals for clothing, like for example from the calf we get calf leather, from the sheep, sheep wool and so on. I think that is not cruel, it is the best way to make a good use of the whole animal. However there are also people who kill animals in danger of extintion only for the leather, I think that people should be in jail. If you raise animals you can do almost what you want with them, but not with free animals or animals in danger of extintion.

Third, animals are also used to research into pharmaceutical products, but I think this is necessary to try medicines, obviously we have to try first in animals and then in humans. Nevertheless there are some animals who die in laboratories, however I think those animals are only rats, sometimes we have to use them to save many people live.

To conclude it only remains to add that we have to respects animals, take care about them and also to protect them from people who want to make an illegal use of them. This essay has presented how humans use animals for several things, like for food, clothing or pharmaceutical products and why this is absolutely necessary to survive and to make our life more comfortable.






