                        
Nowadays the possession of guns is very common in some countries, specially all over America. The possession of firearms increases the huge bussiness of arms dealing, which moves a great quantity of money. Many people think that arms should be legal, for example people who support the NRA ( National rifle association ) but there are also people who support associations against firearms.I am convinced that the main reason to have arms at home is the fear. People are afraid of other people. But why are they afraid? They are not afraid because there are many criminal arround their home, because thay is false at all. They are afraid because they know that everybody in the neighbourhood is armed. Their happy neighbour who live next door perhaps has got two or three guns at home. I think having arms at home is absolutely unnecesary and stupid. In this essay I intend to argue that in my view, there should be a total ban on the private ownership of guns.

As I said in the introduction most of people is armed because they are afraid of other armed people. But not everybody who have arms at home is because is afraid, there are also many people who heve firearms to hunt, maybe the nearest place to hunt is two hundred kilometers away but they "need" to have the fifles at home. I think they should not have firearms at home.

Second, I feel that people should know that have arms at home is really dangerous. If you have firearms at home anyone could take them and commit a crime, like the Columbine high school massacre. In April 20th  , 1999, at Columbine high school two tenage students, carried out machine guns, killed 12 fellow students and a teacher, as well as wounding 24 others before commiting suicide. In fact this incident it is unusual, not everybody who have firearms do this kind of things. However 2.827 people under twenty years old died in New York in 2003 by gunshot, 54 per week, more than the soldiers died since Irak war starts. But it seems to me that people ignore this facts and they feel better with a gun under the pillow.

Third I think that the prohibition of arms sale implies that the number or crimes would go down. I personally believe that many crimes are commited by people who buy the gun in a department store. In my opinion in these days is very easy to buy a gun wherever. So to reduce the number of dead people it is necessary to stop firearms sale. Nevertheless there are hundreds of gun shops which would close if firearms were illegal and many people would be unemployed, even so this is necessary to save thousands of lives. 

In this essay I have aruged against firearms. We have seen that the main reason to have a gun is the fear, that there are people who support associations in favour of firearms and people who are against firearms. We have seen that there are some people who have firearms to hunt, even they know is really dangerous. We also have seen that there are many accidents using firearms but I think the most important fact is that to save many lives there should be a total ban on the private ownership of guns.




