
In our present society drugs are very common. There are hard drugs like cocaine, heroin, pills... and soft drugs like hash, marijuana, magic mushrooms and so on. Hard drugs are really harmful and soft drugs are less harmful. The consumption of drugs has increased a lot, specially in Spain, which is the first consumer country of cocaine and hash. The consumption of these drugs increase the huge business of drugs dealing, which makes many people rich. People knows that the legalization of of hard drugs is not possible, otherwise there are many organizations in favour of the legalization of soft drugs. The aim of this essay is to show my peronal viewpoint about the legalization of soft drugs.

First, I feel that soft drugs should not be legal because nowadays many young people, even children, try drugs when they are really young, and if drugs would be legal they will try them younger, and they do not know really what they are trying or the effects. Nevertheless there are many adults who consume soft drugs like marijuana and they know all about it , but in fact I think it should not been legalized because that could be dangerous for young people and children.

Second, I think that soft drugs are not very harmful, it depends on the quantity. The problem is that people can not control the quantity they consume and become addicted. And some one who is addicted to marijuana, for example, has mental confusion, behaviour disorders, emotional disorders or loss of memory. However there are people who consume sometimes a little quantity, so they are almost healthy. But I believe that soft drugs should not be legal because it could damage many people who maybe become addicted.

For my part the third reason to not legalized soft drugs is because people could consume any drug whenever they want and wherever they are, and that could be dagerous. Nevertheless the govenment could have some kind of control over where people consume them, the quantity, and so on. But probably will be more car accidents, work accidents and I am sure that will be a disaster.

To conclude, it only remains to add that soft drugs are going to exist for ever and ever, but not legal. I have presented the main reasons appears to me to not legalize soft drugs, like it would be dangerous for children, it would damage many people healthy because they can not control the quantity, and also there will be more accidents and thay would a be a disaster.

