      Nowadays, many social problems are increasing dramatically because of several reasons. As a result of this, a lot of people is getting worried. For many people it is very important to be informed about this problems to be able to fight against them and to try to avoid them in the future. These days there are different social issues that are worrying people. They all are important, however, in this essay I intend to explain the causes and consequences of the social issues that, in my view, are the most worrying. These are terrorism, immigration and unemployment.
      First of all, I think that terrorism is the social problem that is causing more preocupation. Terrorism can be defined as the practise of coercing governments to accede to political and religious demands by committing violence on civilian targets. Political desagreement may be the main cause of terrorism. We can check this by remembering some events like 11-S and 11-M, when terrorists tried to forced the retirement of American troopes in Irak (and then punnished Aznar for have been involved in the conflic) by killing innocent people. Another example is Basque nationalism in Spain, that have caused lots of deaths too in the name of ETA. Religious fanaticism may be another cause of terrorism. The consequences are always the same: the deaths of people who isn't involved in the conflict.
      Secondly, immigration is for lots of people a very worrying issue. Immigration is passing or coming into a country for the purpose of residence. The main cause of immigration is, in my opinion, the inequality between the rich North countries and the poor South countries. First world countries don't  contribute sufficient to help third world countries to grow so they can't be able to be leave back their poverty. Although the majority of immigrants migrate for economical reasons, a part of immigrants do it for political reasons or just because they want an opportunity to get a job that let them earn some money to hold up their families. When immigrants get to the destiny's countries, they usually find it difficult to accommodate themselves there. This happens because of the new language, the new life style, the difficulty to illegal immigrants, the discrimination they sometimes suffer, and so on. It has been said that immigrants come to our countries and get the jobs that, as natives, belongs to us. However, I think that they usually do the work that nobody wants to do (the hard work). Some people also think that immigrants are inferior than them and treat them as delinquents or even as animals. In my view, we all have to be treated as the same way and I think diversity of cultures is something possitive for us.
      Finally, another worrying problem is the umployment - the state of not having a job. I am of the opinion that the main cause for umployment is that as the number and the types of machines is increasing all the time, so we need less people to produce the same goods. Technology advances have increased the unemployment. Work time has been reduce in the past 200 years from about 12 hours a day to 8 or less hours only and the working week from 7 days to 6 or 5. Some of the consequences of unemployment are homelessness, housing stress, boredom, shame, erosion of self-steem, poverty and so on. Most of these consequences increase with the duration of unemployment. Some people blame new technologies for unemployment. However, I am not against technology advances because a lot of people is working in new technologies, and I think that unemployment problem may have a solution.
      So then, we have seen three social issues that I consider the most important and worrying: terrorism, immigration and unemployment. To solve each of them I think it would be a good idea to use the dialogue, not to use violent solutions, to help third world countries to develope themselves and to distribute work between every person who want to work by working less hours.
