	The terrorism have had influence in the life of the Spanish people in this last years and in the American people too. Accordingly in all egos of the people in all world, because although the terrorist attacks hadn't been around in all world; the people provided evidence of identify with the preys and with their grief. In spite of this, the world isn't safer, but the fight of all the people together can help to reach this objective. 

	Some people thinks that the world is safer, and it can see trough the demonstration of the support to the victims. A recently documentary expressing a differents manners of thinking of the victims' family indicates that when the terrorists kill somebody the others are more people, because we join together. We celebrate concentration to stop the terrorism in the world; and every time there are more things to fight against the terrorist, and this kind of things made the self-esteem of victims ascend. And it can seem that the world isn't safer, but who really is better are the victims and their family.

	Many people would say that the world is safer since the terrorists' attack. This is caused because there are more personal of security in the train stations, in the planes, in the underground... etc.
And now even in the airports have to cross a control to can fly, and in the future this securities measure are going to ascend in the next years, and this reason invites to think that the world is safer

	On the other hand, there are another people that think that the world can't be safer because the terrorist continue killing when they want. And this people think that the victims haven't to speak and who really have to speak are the terrorist. This people thinks that they have to say the reasons about they are based to killed the people that they loved; because the fact of killing simply for kill, there is a reason that the victims' family doesn't understand; and they doesn't understand neither their goals for which they lost one limb of their family



	Another people thinks that the world could be safer if the victims had some demands and they aren't achieved. The demands that the victims wants are not impunity, memoir, background, and justice. They think that this demands are the base of their dignity. And this a reason more that appear that the government give the reason to the terrorist and remove to the victims, giving more things to the terrorist and speak with them.

	There are another people that thinks that the solution of the terrorist in the world is an accord, and they don't think that the world be safe or dangerous. That on the one hand or on the other so the government so the terrorist have to reach an accord. The terrorist have to transfer to can get the things that they want and the government must to transfer for can decide an accord that can help everybody without exceed the limits in helps for the terrorism

	The general view is in favour of the victims; even some authors have written books explaining the famous attacks in America and Spain. The famous books are Celuloide en llamas, explaining the attacks of 11 - S. and the attacks of Spain are written in Madrid 11 - M.  Todos ibamos en ese tren.; and this book are on victims' side, this book narrate us the imagines of those days, they secure that world isn't safer because every day we can't wait the same routine and surprising with things like that.

	To sum up the general feeling is for the victims and their families and against the terrorists and their doings. The family's victims and different people without any relationship with this persons are in favour of them and give their support. But nevertheless the world isn't safer, because nobody can make certain that the terrorists' facts won't happen; and when they want their demands and it isn't achieved they provoke a terrorist's act.

