     
     Madrid has 40.000 inhabitants due of ever three person has a car in common. Almost all the cars want to start their way at the same time. And this provoke a different kinds of problems with a traffic. In this essay I'm going talking about some solution like pollution that cars produces, the traffic jams the people get hysteric inside of their cars...

	The solution about the pollution isn't very clear, because  the aids to prevent the pollution are never-ending. The new technology makes a some differents invents every time and it isn't very clear which is the most correct to use it. Some of invents are a solar car with sun plate in the roof of the car but this kind of car is very expensive and unaesthetic because they aren't really elaborated; only are invents.

	Secondly other facts connected to the pollution is the carburator. The last year proposition of law tried to do, but at present the law isn't carring off. This law deal about the prohibition of entrance of cars witj than ten years of antique in the Madrid's center, and it could a good idea if these cars have a contribution on the government's face to can change the carburator because this supossed a very costly expense

	Furthermore other invent to pertaining to pollution are the buses of gas or electricity but this kind of automobiles are very expensive, and it doesn't count up with any aid. The government could expend some contribution in this automobiles, because in the future our world will live for some thousands of years more.

	Next, the traffic jams are produces all days in the mornings, the people drive their cars towards theirs jobs, because they think that it's very tiresome go for a long time in a train. But sometimes in a train can consume less time and expend in other activities. And apart the use of the public carriage is another solution for the decrease of a pollution; and you can go where you want and when you want.

	Another point is the important estate of the people that drive their cars, because it's a serious facts that have influence in the traffic. When the people is in their cars about one hour and they are detained in a long queue, they change their personality because they are tired to wait for the cars that are before. A solution for this problems is the trains and underground and this time could spare read a book while someone is driving for you.

	In addition, a useful solution would be the construction of the more lines that can arrive all the nooks of Madrid, more lines of buses and underground, but the building of this lines provoke more traffic jams but with the human collaboration, that is another important solution, using the existent lines it could be less traffic in the roads.

	Finally, the most important solution of all that I have spoken is the ecologist factors, because to prevent the pollution that the traffic, and the traffic jams and the state of person is their own consciousness-raising about the time that they lost in their cars and dirting the world.

	In conclusion, the problems of Madrid about the traffic are some like pollution, the state of persons who drives under pressure... have in common a important factor which is the human collaboration.
