
Nowadays, the Spanish people do not accordance with the education system in Spanish and we can see this in the frequently shows in front of the LOE (Ley Orgánica de Educación.) The education is the most important thing between the knowledge and development of the county. However, in Spain, every year there are less people studying than the year before and some people do not pass easily their course. In this essay I will try to discuss different points of view of the people directly affects and others persons like experts or journalist.

It would appear that the principal conflict is between the parents and the teachers in primary and secondary school. Some parents make responsible to teachers to the education of theirs children and theirs school failure meanwhile the teachers said that they need the support of families. Also the teachers claim that the parents argue with they and parents take away authority so then students cannot see in a teacher a good reference, in addition teachers have not got any union with others teachers.

On the other hand, teachers said that the law do not protect them against the violent students and they want that they could expel the students whose do not want to study. They complain that the education is not effective and that the administration is not doing anything. However, it may well be that the parents and teachers take a conversation and in a few time the have a properly relationship to improve the children's learning, in to school and home.

Another point of view is the society is too responsible with the problem because if the parents want to be able to have a comfortable life they must work hard during a large periods of time and it takes up a lot of time to stay with their sons and daughters. Many parents feel when it happens they would be responsible to have not got enough time to dedicate to children and they are more premising with the education of their children, for example, they give all that the child wants and they will have not got any rules and limits. The British psychiatrist, Anthony James, director of The Teenagers Unity of Highfield, Oxford, believe that family is very important as well as the school and together must create a good model of education. As A. James suggests the school failure is cause for a bad attention for the parents and teacher and after a consequence of that is problems of violence.

Furthermore, the last 6th of November, a journalist of the newspaper EL PAIS whose name is Raimundo Benzal, told that The European Union is implying to make better the obligatory education an to enlarge it for all person's life. Also this objective must to be adopted for the enterprises and in nearly future they will foment the job training. Finally, R. Benzal thinks that the Spanish education system must to offer more quality and more equality, first making steady a good education system and second involving to families, teachers, administrations, centres, and so on.

This argument seems to make sense, because in the society parents and teachers principally are including and more people who have responsibilities like administration, government, centres, etc. and it claim a stability and cooperation between all parts, first improving the apprenticeship for all ages and second trying to end with the school failure.

In conclusion we could found different pints of view to the system of education in Spain like the parents, the teachers and how the society influence in the problem and theirs opinion. Considering all this points, it might be reasonable that the parents and teachers do not argue more and they and society work together for a good future worker, the young.

