
Actually, there are some social economic problems that affects to the development is a country. Our society is bigger every day and also de social conflict like the famine, social or ideological tension, consumerism, and so on. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my point of view, poverty immigration and violence are the principal problems we have got.

It seems to me the poverty is the clue of all. I think the illiteracy, the illness or the unemployment appear when the economy's county is not well at all. First, the unemployment involve that people have not got any money to buy food and they cannot pay a school for their children. If the children cannot go to school to learn they will not have take a properly work because they do not know anything about a profession. In addition without money they cannot have a healthy diet and they can take an illness like digestive illness, bones, health in general.

However other people believe that the poverty is not one of principal issues, they really think that this is a consequence to the increase of immigration in a country (principally to the development countries). My opinion of this is that immigration can moved the offer to employment and also create job. It is that true some immigrants do not aid to create employment and they cannot take a job but is doesn't proof that it is increasing the unemployment because it is not the majority, we should need other facts to check this. 

Finally, in my view, violence is really the consequence to poverty and immigration because the lasts factors together can become different types of class like upper, middle and working. When the people have not got any job and any money they could be conflictive people because they begin to steal, to brake into, the index of vandalism rising and so on.

On the other hand it could be argued that the violence is a term very general any people can to think that it could be refers only a discussion between difference class, or people, or ideological believers for example, or gender violence. When it is happened all think in the racism. People do not want to have their money and comforts, that is normal because they have rights, they are their country. Nevertheless, I would suggest that it is very selfish position because native people don't think in the immigrants people who have left their countries for have a better life.

I this essay we have studied in depth what is the most worrying the actual society. We have seen how the poverty, the immigration and the violence are connecting the influence to the poverty in other problems of society and the cause and consequence to the violence and immigrants. Having described this, my own opinion is that the societies always have problems because in capitalism's world the rich will be richer and the poor will be poorer if the political don't do something like change the economy system. Now, if we only see that like an other morality lesson we will have never to realize that the problem of tolerance in our world is very serious and each of us must to be comprehensive with others because all have ever go to other country to different reasons. The world is only one and if we have the world that we are worthy.

