
Nowadays three of the main problems that are worrying the society are immigration, drugs and violence. These are problems that have always been bear in mind and with time they have increased.

In the last years the numbers of immigrants, people who consumed stupefies and violence have increased considerably. These are problems that affect all the society although all there are not negative. Immigration is beneficial for the economic growth of the country since the immigrants provide a manual labour for a type of work that hardly is made by the national workers. This sense, the work of the immigrants becomes a condition of the economic growth, that in addition will be more and more necessary by the progressive aging of the Spanish population. Nevertheless the idea that prevails between the Spanish in the last surveys of the CIS only a 44% of the people considers that immigrations is favourable for the economy. In fact one takes the blame the foreigners of the economic, although they are previous to its arrival and been them the most affected. On the other hand immigration has disadvantages like for example prostitution, as some woman are brought to developed countries like Spain and they are forced to prostitute they are threatened and treated with violence. Also groups of mafias abuse of immigrants. They promise them a better life where they send them in exchange for money but either they don't even get the chance to leave their country or they don't get what they were promises when they arrive to the developed country. In my view other negative aspect of immigration is that immigrants occupy most of jobs so national workers gets employ. 

In my opinion drugs are very  harmful for society due to the fact that they disturb the behaviour of  people, this causes difficulties on the positive development of society. In addition most of this drugs are brought to our country by immigrants, like for example hachis comes from Morocco. Therefore drugs and immigration are two very important problems which are both related and also are both very perjudicial for social life. The habitual consume of drugs causes psychic problems on people like for example depressions, family disputes, personal isolation and psychic disturbances. This is a big issue as it is very present in nowadays society, specially among young population as people start consuming drugs at a very early age. At present drugs are consumed more by young females than by young boys. Drugs create a strong physic and psychic dependence. Also nowadays it is easier for young people to get drugs than it was years ago.

Last but not least, the third most important social issue that affects society is violence. There are many different types of violence, like genus violence, street violence, terrorism, children abuse, and many other more which have always been present in our society. Genus violence is one of the problems that doesn't have an easy solution, it exits since antiquity and there are still too many cases of it. Some of the most known groups of street violence are Latin Kings, Skin Heads. These use violence to reveal against society because of their different way of thinking and their politic ideologies. These produced in people scared, terror because these are people that have many mental problems.

To conclude I will say that these problems that affect society have always been present with less or more intensity and will never disappear. I hope that these problems that are harmful to society disappear  and people life without problems of any type.  
