

Everyday we see how the workers of Madrid must waste their times in endless traffic jams due to the incredible numbers of vehicles driving through the city. In this essays I will give the solutions that I think that would work in a huge city like Madrid.

The first solution hould be to change the test of driving license to a new, more difficult one. In this way, we can achieve a decreasing of the humber of new driving licenses also the number of new vehicles. However, doing this we are limiting the people freedom, not letting them to do what they want to. But if we keep on this way, there will be so many vehicles that will not be able to travel throught the city.

Another solution, in my opinion, is the shared travels. We can see how the half of the privated transports are occupied whith only one person, when, maybe, some of them travels to the same place. I think, and understand, that many people don't want to carry strange people in their own cars, but if we tried hard and make true planifications for the shared travels, maybe we'll see one day how the vehicles goes full of people, reducing the number of vehicles in the streets and making the traffic faster.

The third solution, always in my point of view, were making like cities such as London: a toll to access to the center of the city. Emptying the center maybe would colapse the places sorround it, but it's an economical benefit and also a good way to make people to use the public transport.

The good use of the public transport, government should improve the infraestructure of the public transport. Improving the trains, buses, the "metro", making it cheaper and faster than now. Obviously, this can not be made so easy. First, we have to paid more money to the government to do this, and also, we have to take care of all instalations and infraestructures. Naturally, this change and improve of the public transport is going to take many years to become a reality, taking into account the economic and social effort.

In last instance, we can do like Eropean cities: make the bycicle and motorbikes the best ways to trave in the city. How we do this? Building a real bicicle path-ways which cross all over the city. Making new bike parkings and creating a rules or laws to follow when we ride a bike. Furthermore, for the motorbikes, if we used to trave with smalles and at the same time fast as the cars (obviously inside the city), the traffic jams will reduce considerably. But using bycicles in Madrid is a little difficult due to the fact that Madrid has an irregular terrain and will be so tired to trave to one point to another, that we left behind the bycicle and we take the car, or the public transport. However, this is a good opotunity to do some phisic effort and some kind of exercise to complete a health life.

To sum up, we have seen some ways to reduce the traffic problem in Madrid like the shared travels, improving the public transport, making the bicicle a good way to travel and making the test of driving license more difficult to control the superpopulation of vehicles. I believe that this solutions will work someday. We have to wait a couple of years, giving all of our side, trying to make a better city here in Madrid.

