
Actually one of the most debated subjects is if the world is now a safer place as a result of the war against terrorism. I refer to the USA's offensive against Iraq, the multiple advertisements that they have sent to Chorea and Iran and the mediation between Israel and Lebanon. In this essay I'm going to expose some opinions about these subjects and try to explain what the people think about this.
The first subject is the Iraq war. Some writers believe that this war has been useless. USA has concentrate his efforts in confront a country that is not an allied of Al Qaeda. As consequence, the relationship between Washington and Europe especially with the Arabic countries has been eroded and the terrorism has been powered. And of course, the USA has lost credibility and legitimacy towards his allies.
It seems that the USA hasn't done anything correct and it could be true. The war against Iraq has been a massacre and they haven't stopped Al Qaeda, but they have brought down a dictator and they have tried to establish a democracy.
In the other hand some people would argue that this opinion is not true. The Government of the USA says that the war is a counterattack as a result of the attack to the Twin Towers in 2001. Since this day, the government began a project to fight against terrorism. Their target was Al Qaeda.  They related the regime of Iraq with Al Qaeda and started the war. They have defeated a dictatorship and they have established a democracy. Their opinion is that they are winning the fight and the world is now safer. But they haven't totally established the democracy because the different groups in the country continue killing themselves; every day, soldiers and people die and Al Qaeda is totally operative.
The second subject is the nuclear threat of Chorea and Iran. The USA thinks that these countries are a threat to the world and they consider that Chorea and Iraq are inside of "The Evil Axis". Both Chorea and Iraq haven't move yet but the USA and his allies watch over very closely their activities. Most people think that is good to remove the nuclear weapons that threat the world, however this include all the countries. If the possession of nuclear is dangerous for the world, "The Good Axis" should look themselves because they have got nuclear weapons too. And if other countries are dangerous because they can use a nuclear bomb, countries like the USA are dangerous too because they also have bombs to use. They are a threat too.
The last subject is the war between Israel and Lebanon. Some developed countries are in favour of Israel because they believe that Lebanon is full of terrorist that threat the global peace. For they, people for Lebanon are radical Islamises that burn cars, put bombs and kill hostages. Other people feel that the threat is in both sides because as Lebanon has terrorist inside the country, Israel is a military strength protected bay some powerful countries that impose his law using power.
In conclusion, the fight against terrorism is focused in some countries considered bad, while other countries are ignored because are allies. Most of the actions are useless and for that reason the world is not safer than 20 years ago. Some solution could be concentrate in the real terrorist groups and their leaders, and destroy or avoid all the destruction weapons dispersed in the world. If these aspects don't change the world will be a dangerous place to live. I think that this is possible if all the countries collaborate. But this is too difficult...

 

