
Nowadays the Spanish education system is the protagonist of many discussions between government, church and people such as students or professors, which have a clear common objective, its improvement at every field. Some of these discussions are about different themes like whether the religion must or mustn't be compulsory in public schools or about which are the most suitable timetables, but the point of them is to build up a well organised and effective education system. There are people who think that Spanish education system is totally adecuated because of its good visible results; but others are completely against it for many reasons. Also there are those who agree with it in some ways and disagree in others. In this essay I am going to show different perspectives concerning the Spanish education system.


On one hand, The Catholic Church maintains their disagreement with the Spanish education system because it doesn't give to the religion the importance that it deserves. First, they don't agree with the determination of the government of considering the religion subject not compulsory, in their view people must have knowledge about God's word because it is so important and useful for the student's formation. Second, they are against the public education centres where man and woman are mixed for considering it a pecaminous thing. Finally, the Catholic Church doesn't support the way professors that works in non-Catholic schools teaches some things as the human reproduction (theme which they usually avoid or explain just some parts of it in their private religious education centres). These arguments are perhaps not enough convincing and appear to have different weaknesses: the first one does not give reasons why the religion is so useful and important, the second seem to be not reasonable because in the circumstance of studying, man and woman are thought to have the same rights and the later is rather illogical because the professors are obliged to teach the reality and not just a piece of it.


On the other hand, the government, as the main responsible of the Spanish education system, states that is in favour of its well functioning. First, the current system has positive results and a proof of it is the high percentage of students that achieve their objectives passing all the exams in June. In addition, the education centres are organised in different courses in which the level gets higher every year so the students get used to study more and to be conscious of their progress and become more responsible. Also, the public education, in their view, has many resources and facilities for those who wants to study at the university such as scholarships or bank loans (to study abroad, to pay the matriculation fees, to the spendings on material), seats, so many careers and specialities and so on.  These arguments are strong, but the first one is perhaps less convincing because the good marks of the students not just depends on the system, the personal effort may be taken on account too.


Finally, most students believe that the education system has several positive and beneficial characteristics and others that can be changed for the better. In their view, some of the positive things are those offered by the education centres such as the possibility to study in other country or the cultural and sport activities... On the contrary, they also feel that the system does not foment the creative and emotional intelligence, which would be very useful for problematic students in order to teach them to be more emphatic for example. Whatsmore the Spanish education level is lower than the education level of most of the European countries like England. The students' perspective could be considered realistic, since it has presented logical and reasonable arguments.


To conclude, there are many social groups that have different perspectives concerning the Spanish education system. On one hand, the Catholic Church considers it disagreeable mainly because it does not pay enough attention to the religion. On the other, the government supports the system because it seems to be efficient and well organised. Also, the students represent mid point between the Church's opinion and the government's one, so they believe the system have worthy and unworthy things. On balance, the education system appears to be not totally wrong but it may be true that some changes can be done in order to its improvement.(732words)
  

