




Nowadays social problems such as terrorism, political corruption or unemployment can be usually seen in Spanish newspapers and television news these days not only because of its relevance but also for its direct influence on us. These problems affect us in different ways, the terrorism has taken away a great amount of innocent lives, since it started long time ago till now it is the main cause of pain of the victim's families, moreover the corrupted politicians are stealing people's money by some kind of illegal business they practice and also there are so many people who are not able to find a job and this increases the unemployment level which is not favourable for our society and country. However, although there are many important problems, this essay will only consider these three because many people would agree they are the most worrying and it would be difficult to enclose and discuss all the issues of society. I would intend to argue that, in my view, why terrorism, political corruption and unemployment are the most worrying social issues in Spain these days.

First of all, I feel that Spanish terrorism is an important problem to take on account because it spread horror and pain all over. It is mostly caused by E.T.A. organisation, a group of criminals and murderers who put bombs inside cars or buildings and rape and murder innocent people in order to achieve political power. They threaten the governments by committing bandalic acts such as the kidnapped and murder of Miguel Angel Blanco. Nevertheless, some people think that as we are in a peace process and the band has not done anything wrong since the ceasefire day this actually is not a problem but I really believe that we cannot be confident on them because they are terrorists and our enemies, and so they can cheat us if, so that for me it is still an issue over which we must keep an eye.

Second, I would argue that political corruption is other worrying issue that or is increasing incredibly fast or we are discovering now all the frauds at a time. We actually have lots of facts and examples about this corruption which is mainly urbanistic and it has been done in different places such as Marbella, where the major permitted building constructions in areas where this was forbidden, not to mention that these kind of business have started in 1997, as it is said in some newspapers  (such as "EL PAÍS"), when the Prosecutor imputed to the municipal corporation's members for a similar crime. There also has been corruption in Ciempozuelos (bleaching money), Seseña (masive recalification of some areas), Manilva, Tenerife, Telde, Camas, Las Palmas and Calvià. 

On the other hand, this politicians are not stealing our money directly from the bag, they take a little bit of each person so there are people who do not feel attacked by them, and who really don't care about their strange business, and so these people are able to live without any worry about it, so then do not consider it a problem at all. However, I strongly believe that it is a problem and that they are getting rich passing over others while we are being robbed and doing nothing for it.

Finally, I tend to believe that the last of the three main social issues is the high level of unemployment, which is increasing every year. This is happening for several reasons, for example, there are much more temporal works, the salaries compared to the expenses are so low, the time spent on working is sometimes excessive so the people haven't got enough time for themselves either to see their children...in our society is difficult to find a good job and maintain it. But it can be argued that all this would cease sooner than is thought because as we notice the problem, the rest will do it too and there will be more work stands, and the timetables would be more flexible, and maybe the temporal work would decrease. However, I disagree with it, I think that it may be possible that some of these things become real, but not everything, because if it happens, we will be living an uthopy.

To conclude, we have seen three most worrying social issues these days: the terrorism and its criminals, the political corruption and its effect on us and finally, the increasing unemployment. Considering all these points it might be reasonable to suggest some solutions: the first problem is being solutioned by the government but my own suggestion is not to down arms; for the second, I think that it would be useful to impose tougher penalties to the corrupters and for the last one, I feel that some changes are needed such as a more flexible timetable. If things like these are not put in practice, it will be difficult to solve the problems.


