Alcohol is one of the main preoccupations of society these days. People, especially youngs between 11 to 15 years-old, have their firsts experiences with alcohol at these early ages. The alarm was caused by the hit of a common practice in Spain that consists in drinking in streets, public gardens and squares. It is called "botellón". We could translate it as the place where you can find lots of bottles; or another meaning could also be "a huge bottle". In the present essay I will explain the problem of the alcohol consumption among the young people, and I will also suggest a number of solutions to discourage them from drinking alcohol in so abusive way.

First of all, we all know that young people like the so-called "night life". That is, they enjoy to hangout with friends on a Friday or Saturday night, going to clubs and discos, and so on, until the sun rises and a new day have come. It's paradoxical that with all the information given about the consequences of an abusive consumption of those kind of drinks at that early ages, most of them act in a irresponsible way. You only have to ask in a hospital, and they will tell you horrible stories about, for example, teens that were abandoned by their own friends when they were drunk, and another possible disgraces that can take place when your body has absorbed a huge quantity of alcohol that runs into the bloodstream (paranoia, you can't defense yourself if somebody wants to hurt you, it increases the possibility of a violent behaviour, etc) . This information should be taught to them by active and by passive. In my opinion, the efforts made by the Government have been good, but not enough. It is necessary to join forces and to plan a more effective programmes and activities in the schools and the streets. The advertisements on TV have prove that the visual impact it's very effective, with the images of teens sick after a crazy night, or in a hospital after a fight or incident caused by somebody who was drunk. Some people may think that this measure will not help to erase the problem, because is not new. We all know the law "anti- botellón" that prohibited completely to drink in the streets, although it's often to see small groups of people breaking the law. But I'm sure  that a major awareness of the situation, with a good education at home and in the schools, will help to reduce the problem in several months.

In addition, to the problem explained above, the main reason of the boom of the botellón  is the fact that is very easy to buy alcohol. Especially in small shops, those who are oftenly owned by Chineses, it's easy to see how they  sell that kind of drinks to underage people. They even don't ask to check their ID's. The prices are cheaper that in other locals. In a bar 0.25 litres of beer sometimes is around 2 or 3 euros. In these shops, you have 1 litre of beer, 3 euros. The owners know that the prices of drinks in discos and bars are more and more expensive. These locals take advantage of this, and here is the result: hundreds of people together in a square, or park, making noise and getting drunk. The solution I would recommend is not like the last measure that was imposed (it said that it wasn't legal to buy alcoholic beverages later that 22.00 PM). We have the examples of countries like Sweden and Norway, where you just can buy those drinks in specific shops. Of course, the taxes are so high that the prices are very expensive, and that makes more difficult the acquisition of this items. If I could I would suggest to make like these two countries, but with a severe punishment to every body who breaks the law. It's a severe measure, maybe some people would think that it's too extremist, not realistic. But we have to look to prevent future problems, to the next generations, such as problem related to diseases of the liver, the heart and the pancreas. 

To sum up, if we don't stop this trendy of the consumption of alcohol, we will lose more than a  good health or a good life style, we will be losing generations if we don't open the eyes and try to control the situation. I have considered some  information of people whose work is related to save the lifes of these people, to write the present essay, and I think we should always listen the advices they give us, through all the information  that nowadays we have there, on the  TV, in the radio, newspapers, etc.

