
Violence in football it's being more and more common in our present society. Many organized groups of people, from different countries of all of the world, have focuses in a sport like football some kind of ritual based in a violent behaviour against all what is different from their point of view. In this essay, I'm going to suggest a number of solutions that I think could help to reduce the problem of violence related to football.


First of all, one of the solutions that in my opinion could reduce the exaltation of these fanatics of football is a major presence of police inside the stadiums during the matches. This could be an effective measure to control groups of people with violent behaviour because that means they would be, in a way, apart from the rest of the people that don't want to get in troubles; there would be a determinated place of the stadium for these trouble makers (the Ultra- Sur, a fanatic right- wing organisation related to Real Madrid C.F, in fact, have a special place in Bernabeu Stadium).Their presence would guarantee the safety of most of the public, families and others, that don't want to be disturbed by any kind of violent behaviour, and would avoid any kind of incidents. Another possible solution, it would be good to have a CCTV outside and inside the enclosure. First  Division clubs in Argentina must install a camera monitoring system before the end of the year or they will be excluded from the next championship. That could help to make people feel more safety.


Another point we should think about is that fans are not the ones who are involved in the violent incidents that we normally read in the newspapers or watch on the TV. These incidents many times involves players from both teams. In my opinion, players, and their respective teams, should teach to the young people that violence in a field is not made for football. For example, educational proyects and to build strong links between clubs and the community would be a good option. It's true that sometimes people tend to believe that those who like to provocate incidents are from a low social rank, it has been demonstrated that those proletarian youths find in violence an escape to forge an identity: the social and economical is related with these aspects.

Finally, we have the problem of what happens before and after the matches. The media have a lot of influence in this aspect, when they exalt or simply criticise the actions of a determined club. These ideas have a lot of influence in the public. So, the role of he media should be, in my opinion, just to give the information but without exaltations. First of all, because sometimes we find the examples that the media use to exalt people: racism, drug taking and alcohol. The information they give us is about scandalous incidents by violent people, who just want to get drunk and to take drugs before the battles (name some skinheads give in Spain when they "fight" against the national police in the streets). The media usually tell us that the influence of alcohol consumption  on violent behaviour, but statistically that information is wrong: alcohol consumption in general is not the cause. The problem is when it is mixed with drugs, cause the effect is worst.

In conclusion, I think that all the solutions I have explained are realistic. All of them are for those who don't want to get in troubles. Not just clubs should be very worried about this problems. Governments should have to plan restricted solutions to end with hooligans not just when they are inside the country but also outside.
