
      In our present society, violence and young children have experienced a strong connection. We have got used to the idea of children with behaviour disorders, which sometimes end in a violent behaviour; and of course, the news that we normally watch on the TV about children that have killed to others. However some people think this of violence, by children, is scary, the measures seems to be not enough to prevent this kind of actions. In this essay I will discuss the causes of the problem of growing violence among young children.
      
      
      First of all, I personally believe that the main problem that may cause that violent behaviour is a lack of education. Most of the people think that there's a difference between a private school and a public. I think that in a way, that is true. So for my part, I feel that there should be a special program of activities focused in creating a good atmosphere. Some kind of techniques that could show the children to see that violence it's not a good choice, and also, to show them that there's not possible differences between the members of the class, a excuse that some use to approve that behaviour. Some people may think that this measure could not be effective because some schools don't have money enough, the budgets are practical inexistence in some cases. But the Government should care, creating a national organism dedicated to the effort to erase the problem, and of course, it would be free for the schools.
      
      
      Another point to remember,  is the influence that children can have. It has been argued that some kind of music, some determined books and specially the videogames may contain explicit contents of blood and graphic violence, so that would be determined to attack them saying that are "harmful" for a child. In my opinion, the question people should ask to themselves is if it's just that kind of external influences, and not others, such as the personal problem that some families can experience (divorces, domestic violence) or the social and economical situation or a determined area or country, that can have a major influence and a child, causing a bad behaviour, and a lack of respect to laws. Personally speaking, the main influence you can have, are your parents, they are the main responsible. So in this case, my solution would be a major control of the games the children play by their parents, but we don't have to use   the industry of videogames as a scapegoat. 
      
      
      In addition to the problem, the social situation of a family it's important in the education of a child. It's not the same to live in a good neighbourhood that in one where reigns a world of drugs and violence. In my opinion there should be major control of the situation in those places where by security reasons, there should be a police control. It's better to be surrounded by police that to live in a bad ambient, where your family it's going to live. The main measure I would give it's a programme focused in the education of the children, teaching that they can have a better choice.
      
      
      Finally, the responsible of the violence among young children it's simple: we are all responsible. A child has so many influences, at the school, at home, the typical idols...We can't use scapegoats, because it's just our fault. It is necessary to teach the children, and to show them that they can do better things to do that to react violently.
