
Guns, rifles and other kind of firearms have been used for centuries, not like just for killing people in wars and fights, but also for hunting, and to many people, as a sport. However, nowadays the use that most people give to them has defensive connotations, and the evidences of past and recent shootings show us that the U.S.A is the main country with problems concerning to the use and control of firearms. The fear from the unknown, the waves of immigration and some other factors have provoked the huge increase of the sale of several kinds of firearms, and the reasons to use them have changed completely. In this essay I'm going to talk about the problem of the use of guns, focused in my opinion of why there should be a total ban on the private ownership of guns.

Most of the people in the U.S.A have at least, a gun. For most of the Americans, is essential to have (at least) one, for "security reasons". First of all, the facts of an increase of immigrance and the existence of a variety of different cultures, origins an atmosphere of distrust, that usually ends in violence. For example, it is know that in a neighbourhood that is polarised in "richs" and "poors", it's often to hear about thefts and violence. Firearms can be bought in special markets, where you have to fill a profile and, in a manner, it's controlled; but also in the black market. There should be something that could permit control how many firearms are sold, to whom and the use people give to them; also is important to know If the owner of his or her respective firearm is dangerous to the society, because the risk is important, and more If people ignore the risk of a person with a mental disturbance who uses a firearm.

Another point to suggest is that it has been shown the relation between having a mental disturbance and the use of violence. The world sees America as a excessively violent country, from where some sort of games, TV programmes and films which have a important amount of explicit violence are commercialised. From Westerns and the history about the mafia, to the American History: Vietnam's War, J.F Kennedy's death, Iran, Iraq. The violence that grows near the life of a teenager may affect in some ways, above all If she or he has an antisocial behaviour, with a lack of responsibility and disrespect for the authority. We all should remember what happened in Columbine, five years ago. Shootings in high schools have been very common to us, who live in Europe, and more and more people have nearly get used to it. The market of the firearms is related to the violence: without violence, it would be weaked; and so, without firearms, there would be no violence.

Finally, another important point about the use of firearms- guns, rifles, shot guns, machine guns- is the particular use of these. As I said above, the use of some of these arms is not only for a fight or a war. Sports, such as the hunting of the fox, are practised as a tradition; and some people just like to buy them as a collector of rare things. In my opinion, this is the most interesting use, not violent at all (except If you disagree with the hunting).

In my opinion, the ownership of guns, shot guns and other kind of firearms should be restricted to the Army, Police and those who makes a responsible use of those. And to never provide easily this items to people not qualificated.
