  Nowadays exist a lot of social issues on the world. Some problems are more difficult to resolve than others. There are differents viewpoints about whatarethe most important social issue andthe way they must be corrected. For example some of these problems could be the high level of deaths in traffic accidents, domestic violence, bulling, drugs in young people, the pollution or the ilegal inmigration.

  First, I'm going to talk about the serious and very present social issue of the ilegal inmigration this  is a politic problems but the society is affected by it because ours meansare not prepared for that human exceed. For example the public transports, the employment or the public health are not adapted at this change so sudden. All of  this provoke the racism.
In my opinion, this problem can be solutionated changing the system not doing massive regulations and doing regulating until our possibilities and punishing contrator that give employment to ilegal inmigrants.

  The  next problem I consider one of the most important is the drugs in adolescents. The problem takes root when the adolescent is attractied for the drugs seeing that people who is closed him(friends or colegues) take them and influencing in him because at this age hi is more vulnerable psychologicalment. A solution could bethe eradicaton since the education avoiding that vulnerability in presence of that influent persons that really  are not friends.
  The last problem, I think is the most important is the domestic violence. Nowadays this isa big a problem really happens since civilization begun because until now always the man has  been upper than the woman socially and had had epoch in our history that the society was very sexit for example in Spain during the epoch of Franco women couldn`t do anything without permission of her husband or her father. All of this I have explain nowis a reason why these days continue the domestic problem, because there are lot of people that haven't change their mentallity. Another reason of this problem is related with the problem stated before, the problem of the drugs. There are men and in less proportion women that after work and go to the bar and drink so much and when they arrive at home they unload all the agresivity that the alcohol provoke beating their wifes or husband. But not always the problem is the alcohol in some cases there are person who have mental problems anddo that this foolish things or there are person too that do this things because  they enjoy doing it and it is a really big problem. I think that for this problem the solution is not so easy like for the other but I think that are solution that could be to concienciate the women or person damaged that they haveto tell it and proclaim it, because another cause that could  happen if they don`t do that they aregoing to suffer psychological problem because beat is not the only type of mistreat. The abuse sexual and the insults are another kind of it that sometimes is dangerous than the other once andthe solution I believe that is the same.
  To conclude, all these social problems are very worrying and I think that must create an organization that taken up each one and try to give solutions to all of them and doing that the society would be better than now because probably there will not so deathlike until now in the case of domestic violence or in the case of inmigrants there will not problems of racismor there will not adolescents with problems ofdrugs. And like this problems all the other once mentioned in the introductory paragraph.     


