	
	The war and the terrorism are both forms of violence that never take anywhere. Usually all the wars and in the same way the terrorism are caused by religious and politics ideas. There are and there were since civilization began until these days people perjudiced about this and on the other hand there are people that always obtains benefits with these horribles succeses. In this essay I'm going to explain what themes have been throughout history what are taken to start a war or problems like the terrorism, and enumerate different opinions about thise topic. All of these reasons I'm going to present here are going to answer the question of the topic given.

	On one hand I'm going to explain and enumerate some ofthe wars that had happened since civilization began. The prehistoric men had "wars" between groups because of the surviving for example the places of each of them had to hunt in the animals that after they ate, and if another group hunted in the place that wasn't their place probably they had fights not arriving to be wars. In egypts time there were wars too but not much because in these days the Pharaoh controlled all aspects of the life and if he had a sublevation or something like that it was crushed very quickly. If we continue throughout the history in Greek's and Roman's epoch there was a lot of wars for example Peloponeso's war in the case of Greeks or Punica's war in the case of Romans, they were because they wanted to conquer more and more territories, because they were too because of the power in the case of Romans because they were very ambitious overcoat the Patricious people. If we advanced a little bit more we find the medieval wars between one village and another one or the most famous religious wars, the crusades between Catholic believers and Moslem  believers because the Catholic believers wanted to liberated Holy Land of the moslem but these wars had economic interests too.
	More advanced in the history we find all the wars of a Royal family that reigned in Spain called the mayor Austrias and the minor Austrias and all thewars happened in the reign of the successives kings of Spain or the French revolution, all of them because of the religious and politic problems.
	In the modern times the wars for us more famouses have been the Spanish Civil War, the I and II World Wars or nowadays the most recient war is the war against Irak. The first three once were because different politics ideas and because the anxious of conquer territories when it was imposible, and the other one was originated because of a terrorism attack but this religious and economics interests too. Any of all the cases presented in this paragraph the problem have always been the same but with different consequences because the technology advance an with it the danger of the wars.

	On the other hand, the terrorismisthe other problem that shake the world.
	There are a lot of kinds of terrorism, but the most dangerous and terribly the most famous are the violent attacks.
	Here in Spain we have had a lot of kinds of this attacks with terrorists groups like E.T.A or G.R.A.P.O, both of them put bombs in publics places, they killed and in the case of E.T.A nowadays continue killing inocent people because they don't get what they want. Both groups kidnap people that sometimes after they kill or not.
	But for us, in our present society when someone talk about terrorism attacks we have in our mind the attacks perpetrated for the radical moslim terrorists group of Alcaeda in the United States were died thousand of people on the 11th of September or in Madrid when the 11th of March they put the bombs in the trains and killed hundred of people too or in London. But the first attack mencionated war the origin of the Irak's war.
	To conclude and answering the question done in the enunciated the world isn't a safer place because every day we have to be alert because of the terrorism and the wars that with the pass of the time are more and more cruel and there aren't any form of solitionate it and it is a big problem because one day with the bombs and nuclear weapons the world could be destroyed.  
