



Nowadays,the spanish education system,has many problems. Our education system is one of the worst in all Europe, it can be caused by problems such as: violence between students and between students and teachers,the way of teaching,the problem of getting a job after finishing your studies,or maibe because of the lack of money expent in education. In this essay I will try to show different points of view of different people about the main problem they see in Spanish education system.

Many students seem to believe that the main problem,in our Spanish education system, is that the way of teaching is wrong. First, because there is no change in anytime. From their point of view, they should have more ways of learning something, not only theory, for example. Second, because there is no motivation to end up their studies. They feel that, eventhough you have finished your studies, sometimes you can't find a job or you can't find a good job. It is apparently true that the way of teaching It's almost the same all the years, but It is also true that researches show that this is the best way of learning. We can also think It's true that sometimes, eventhough you have finisehed your studies,a career or any type of studies, you can't find job, but it is proved that the opportunities to find a jod with studies are higher.

Another point of view we can discuss,is the teacher's one. They seem to think that the main problem of this education system problem, is the problem of violence in almost every school. First, because violence is becoming common in every school, and this makes it increase. Second, because teachers argue that they are there to teach the students,not to educated them. Teachers afirmed that education should be given by parents. From their point of view all this affects them, because teachers can't teach all what they should. One of the main arguments in favour, is that it is true that education, nowadays, is less strict than few years ago, so this may affect the respect of children to older people and between each other. It is also apparently true, that teachers can't teach what they should,but it's also true that they don't try different ways of teaching.

From a politic point of view, the Spanish education problem also affects them. Politicians argue that there are two main problems in the education system: Inmigrants , and the lack of money. The first problem they seem to see, is the problem of inmigrants,who also need to study. This means that the level of education decreases, due to the big number of inmigrants in each school. In the other hand, another poblem politicians argue about is the lack of money to spend in education. This ends up in trying to use the less expensive ways of teaching, causing the monotony of teaching. Although, some people believed that the solution to the inmigrant problem, is to make special classes only for them until they reach the level of the Spanish children, but this sometimes doesn't work because of the lack of teachers or the lack of rooms to teach.

In conclusion, we have discussed about the different points of view of a bis problem in our country, the Spanish education system. We have also seen some solutions given by different people, from their point of view, like changing the way of teaching, preventing violence by a good education at home, etc. Although there are some ways of reaching the success, it seems that It's not going to be easy to reach.






                                                                                                                      
