      Terrorism has appeared throughout the history once and once again. It can be defined as a group of people that use the violence or threaten to use it with political purposes; for example to achieve gaining independence from their countries as the terrorist group ETA in Spain.
In some tribal societies terrorism existed yet and they used terror to get control of these ones. Just in the 12th century, a group of musulmans called the "Killers" carried out terrorist companies in his country. Along the history were produced lots of terrorist attacks, like the terrorism caused by the propagation of ideologies and nationalisms after The French Revolution at the end of 18th century or the terrorist attacks against important leaders or even innocent citizens by a group in favour of the anarchism in the 19th century. But also the Government used the terrorism as an instrument of his politic as the communism or the fascism (as in the URSS, Italy or even in Spain). Nowadays, the terrorism actions have increased due to the conflict between EEUU an the musulman's  countries, and specially because of the attack by a terrorist musulman group "Al-Qaeda", against The Twin Towers in USA on 11th September 2001. This provoked the beginning of a war against terrorism directed by the actual president of EEUU, George Bush, who affirmed that the iraqi's regime presided by Saddam Husayn had nuclear arms in his power. In the beginning of 2003, Bush asked ONU to use the force for inspecting Iraq, but he didn't wait the answer and started the Iraq's invasion which caused the fall of the government of Husayn. 
But, is the world a safer place as a result of this war against terrorism?. In this essay I will discuss and consider the different arguments that people use concerning the result of the war.

           Some people argue that war against terrorism has improved the quality of life (research suggests that 74% of Americans are in favour of this war). First, because now there are much more measures of security than before. This means that in places as airports where the terrorists could get into a plane some explosives in a way really easy, have been created very restrictive rules as not to enter to the plane with bottles content more than 100 millilitres of liquid. Second, some people feel safer since the president of Iraq, Saddam Husayn was put in prison, what meant the weakening of Iraq and the overthrow of his Government. Third, after the war, some of the musulman countries has been obligated to change from dictatorship to democracy, thus avoid a person will be the only one who will take the decisions of a whole country.
Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. Respect to the first argument, it is true that at the moment there are more measures of security, but these ones wouldn't be necessary if the world was really a safe place. Moreover, to prevent the most of the terrorism attacks it would be necessary and convenient that these rules were taken in others public transports, not only in the airports. In the second place, although the president of Iraq has been captured, there are more dangerous terrorists in liberty as Osama Bin Ladem. Finally, a democracy imposed by the force, it will never be a real democracy, and it is not convenient to trust in something that it is not known if the citizens are agree with it.

          Many people believe that it is depends on the country where they live if they will be safer or not. It is going to depend particularly in two things. Firstly it is going to depend on the opinion of the country about the war. This means that countries which supported the war against terrorism and the invasion of Iraq have more possibilities to be attacked by Al-Qaeda than a country which did not support the war. And secondly, it depends on the country's geographical situation. This means that countries around those ones which took part in the war, could suffer a terrorist attack more easily, even without the terrorist wanted to do it.
These arguments seem to make sense because in first place, it is showed that the two main countries which suggested the war and helped Bush in his attacks, Spain and Britain, were attacked by Al-Qaeda after three years that the war started. Both Spain and England suffered violent attacks in some of their public transport. In second place , countries around Iraq have entered in crisis after the weakening of Iraq.

          On the other hand, it is seems generally agreed that after the war, the world is less safe than before, First, because the anger of the musulman culture has increased so much that it is hoped a new terrorist attack one of these days. Also, terrorists do not stop inventing and creating new ways of attacking and it cannot prevent every one. In spite of the fact that new preventive measures are taking nowadays, the principal problem is that these rules are taking once the terrorist attacks have been produced, and it is probably that terrorist groups will use new methods in their future attacks, not the same ones they used in the past. Another point could be that after the great scientific development, at the time to attack, the new arms are able to kill much more people than in the past. Therefore, a terrorist attack could cause millions of deaths these days what means that the world is not safer than before.

           In conclusion, the last argument seems the most logical ones because not only the world is not safer than before, it is even more dangerous. In the present we live in a situation characterized by tension among countries so at any time we could expect a terrorist attack. However, the level of the danger also depends on the country. Therefore, the last argument should be supported by the second one. 
Considering all these points, although it is difficult to finish with the terrorism, it will never finish if the Governments continue using the violence as an instrument of his political.
