
In my opinion problems which have always beaten society are: poverty, war and diseases -nowadays the most usual are Cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer...and much more-. These three items are quite related and have difficult solution, but it's necessary to be conscious and involve in them. Sometimes people think that they'll never have "these types of problems" and forget them. But I believe that it's necessary to have information of each one. I'm going to expose my opinion, giving facts and data about each part, trying to suggest solutions to these problems.

First I want to talk about poverty, which is the problem that affect to 1300 millions of people all over the world. They're living without basic necessities and means of improve their situation. Today there're many groups which demand more political 
participation, pretending them to leave good intentions and trying to act against the lack of resources. The matter is governments don't help by trying to improve the economy of poor countries and just follow benefiting of them. 
However there're many organizations and ong's which take a more direct way and try to help these countries by sending there basic resources and the most important things to survive. But in my opinion I think that this isn't the way to sort out this lack, it's more complicated than give some punctual help. It seems to me that a more general solution is needed, and the most effective that exists today is the politic one.

Another issue is the war that it's always present in earth since civilization began. In many parts of the world there're armed conflicts which change innocent lives completely, destroying their cities, their families... Nowadays there're many places taking part of battles for example Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine, Ethiopia, Morocco...For my part I feel that every war is useless and exist many other ways to resolve disagreements between countries.Nevertheless sometimes is "inevitable" for governments to bring peace to one country without take there their army and provoke a battle,for try to change by force the actual organisation of this country or establish a new form of government, but in my point of view war is never the solution to reach peace. And there's no justification in resolve problems by violence, because they can make use of justice, which is a more civilizated way.
Finally another important problem is disease. Depends on the place of the world the most established sickness, but one of  the most extended is AIDS. In many underdeveloped places is difficult trying to prevent it, because -asides the fact that its treatment is very complex and novel- they haven't got enough resources and information to combat it. In addition we can also mention others illness like Cancer, which produce 2.43 millions of deaths per year. In this case exist more alternatives to overcome this illness. The principal factors that causes it are: obesity, not consume enough fruits and vegetables, sedentary life, alcohol, tobacco, sexual activity without protection, pollution... On one hand it seems to me that the principal responsible to prevent Cancer is oneself because many of these factors depend on us. And the same with AIDS, because many times there is no excuse to be irresponsible and not to get protection against it. On the other hand it's necessary to understand those sectors which haven't got means to protect themselves (sometimes people haven't got enough resources to live adequately because of the facts explained before) and that's why they need alternative ways to overcome this situation. And also to others diseases there's no effective prevention, like Alzheimer.

In conclusion, poverty, war and sickness for me are truly related and are the most important misfortunes in this world. Sometimes we can prevent illness, we can be charitable with someone poor, or we can try to demostrate our rebuff to war but what it's really important is to get information, to act, to stay in contact with
organizations...definitively not to live apart of reality. Because in this way we may change things for better.































