


Nowadays exists a great polemic around the education system in Spain. A recent research called PISA report -Programme for International Student Assessment-  have suggested that "secondary obligatory education" - E.S.O - doesn't prepare students well enough and this is reflected in following years, when arrives the moment to develop their diary lifes in society. Some researchers believe that this is a "social-cultural" problem, related with the cultural level of parents. Other people would argue that this may be solve by invest more money in education, and another groups - generally people which is coneccted to this reality more directly - claim that system must be reconstructed completely.
In this essay I 'll try to discuss the different perspectives about the Spanish education system.

To begin with, the political part would say that it's neccesary for improve this situation to spend more money in the system and try to make all the communities conscious of that. Education Department claims that the bad results obtained in the last research correspond to the actual situation of Spain, due to the cultural and social lacks of our society. They bet for a series of resources to improve the actual organisation, but without a complete transformation of the entire system. That's why the E.S.O system is more or less young and they maintain that is too early for a change. It has been suggested that system is still developing itself and it's not possible to make an opinion yet. The Education Department might argue that many of the solutions to get better results proposed by the organisation which make the research, called OCDE (Organisation for the Cooperation and the Economic Development), coincide with the proposals made by the Department. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive it has certain weaknesses, because there's no guarantee in the solutions exposed by the OCDE. In addition, it's neccesary to consider that this research has been made in many countries all over the world and each system will need specifics changes depending on their lacks. Spain is situated beneath the average, which implies that its education system needs many more changes than other countries. 


One of the mid-point arguments is suggested by parents. They're related with this reality because of their children and also because they were students in the past. Some of the evidence shows that they're in favour of invest more money. Recent data reflect that the last research is still worse that the one made in previous years, that means the system is not working correctly, and it's an internal problem that could be resolved with and investment to get new teachers, better course materials and classes. Another apparently true fact is believed: if parents have made this test when they were 15 they would have obtained a better mark, that's because it's seems generally accepted that education system is in decline. The last argument seems to make sense because there's no logic in have an education system which, instead of improve the new generations, make them worse and less prepared. That's why this could be considered a realistic perspective, because they're talking with a preview experience.



Many teachers would be in accordance with parent's view, specially the older ones, which have lived the change of the education system. It's obvious that teachers would agree with the proposal of the investment of money, but they don't consider this the only important measure. The general feeling is that a preview organisation is needed before spending more money and time in the same wrong structure. They notice everyday the shortage of basic acquaintance in reading comprehension, mathematics, science and another necessary matters. It has been suggested that it's not just a matter of knowledge, it's about behaviour and manners of the students. Some teachers claim that it's necessary to teach social and moral values at the same time as maths and science, because if the intention of the eduaction system is to get people prepared to work and live in society, student won't reach this goal until someone intruct them about how to do it. This point is rather convincing, altough it's seems very difficult to create an ideal system in which the students acquire plenty of knowledges and also a good preparation for the new stage. Seems reasonable to change the actual system into another one better which stop the actual decline but education is something that students won't get just at school. Parent's instructions and diary life must contribute to this task.

It's possible to argue that students have no fault of the bad results obtained in the last research and it's apparently true that they have no perspective yet in this matter. Most university students, which have lived this experience, would say that the actual system is not effective enough, refering to both parts of education: the one related to the acquaintance of common subjects, and the other connect to the "social" knowledge they might need at the beginning of university or work. On one hand, they feel that there's no instruction to face the new life in society, but maybe it's possible to soften this change and make it easier by confronting the problem earlier. On the other hand they argue that it was difficult to adapt themselves to the new way of examinations and classes, because at school it was not necessary to work so hard. Because of this reasons they notice that something in the system isn't working allright and it's necessary to pose the problem. This could be considered a realistic perspective because it's nearer the system and is not completely aside of it, like the politic one. Appears to have an opinion against the actual system but don't know really why. Seems reasonable to say that many students haven't got enough time to perceive the consequences of their student's phase.

To conclude, we can appreciate that there are many sectors implicated in this problem. Some of them deal with the change of the system, and others - the politic side - deal with the improvement of the actual one. There're mid-point arguments inside the first one, parents bet for an investement of money to introduce reforms but without an integral transformation, teachers ask for a change in the organisation to avoid the bad results and students are conscious of the weaknesses of the system but don't know how to improve the situation. In short, these who are close to the field of education have a wrong impression of the system. The arguments of these people appear more reasonable because they belong or have belonged to this organisation. It's seems to be truthful since they talk about their own experiences and have no pressure of a politic party. For that reason, seems reasonable to consider that a reconstruction is needed
because education is one of the main parts of society and it is not logical to go in decline. One reasonable prediction is that, due to the power over the administration, politicians will decide the future of the actual organisation instead of the complaints of many people which are directly connected with this reality.








