
These days there are a lot of problems in many countries and cities, like crime in many towns, suicides in modern society, etc. But in my opinion, there are three especially worrying problems: the third world poverty, the islamic terrorism, and the environment polution.
Why this problems? Well, I think this problems affect directly and indirectly  to all people over the world, because the first world cause this problems, all the people suffer this fatalities (specially the third world), and the first world must defeat all of these problems.

First of all is the third world poverty. In this world there a minority of rich people and many many poor people. What's the problem of this situation?
Nowadays the poor people have no money so they can't eat. The most of this persons are sickness and no have food for raise their defenses in the body, in addition, they can't buy medicines because there are very expensive, so all the days dies a lot of people.
Maybe somebody says that we send them food and medicines. Yes, we send it, but is not enough, they need more, and most of the people do nothing.
However this is not the only problem for people of the third world. There are a big problem called AIDS, a illnes which kill hundred of persons every days. I think that we have to prevent them against the AIDS using condoms, but recently, the Pope said that they shouldn't use it beause the Catholic church disagree the use of it. Many catholics agree with the Pope. Sincerely, I can't understand how in a modern society there are people who think in this way. There are thousands of AIDS sick people by fault of no use preventive methods like the condom.
In my opinion if they use it they can defeat this ill.
This people who see their friends and their families dieing all the time wants to have a better life, and this situation generate the problem of inmigration. They want go to developed countries and have good lifestyle.
I think that we can help them sending money, sending people and ask to our gobern better solutions to help them.

The second problem that I mentioned is the terrorism. There are differesnts groups that affects to many countries, like ETA in Spain. But this groups affects individualy to this countries. Now I go to talk about the style of terrorism that in my opinion is the most worrying because it involucre to all the world, the Islamic Terrorism.
I think that this is the most dangerous and worrying because the islamic terrorist want defeat all the occidental society, they want the war between islamic world and occidental world. 
This terrorists are a cowards who kill thousands of inocent people, so we must end with their terrorist acts. George W. Bush start the war in Irak to defeat them, but in my opinion this is not a solution because the violence only generate more violence. Now Irak is like a second Vietnam and is a hell for the foreign soldiers and for the citiziens.
Maybe the best solution is the education. We must show them to live togheter with other cultures in peace. But start a war is not the best example of respect between differents cultures.

The third and last problem is the environment polution.
Modern societys generate several cuantities of polution, and this polution is killing the Earth. There countries who don't understand this worrying situation and them don't stop the emission of polution. If it continues the desertization of the Earth becomes in a big problem, the hole in the ozone layer will become in a very big hole and more human beings will suffer skin cancer, etc. In my opinion all the countries must forget the money of their industries which generating more polution and respect the enviroment. 
because if the Earth dies, we die too.

In conclussion, this world have several problems, and we have to do something against them. The oportunity of repair this problems is in the hands of the developement world. I'm sure that nobody want let a caothic world to their childrens. So, please, lets do it togheter.

