
In the past ten years the population in Madrid has risen considerably. Immigrants feel that, probably, the best city in Spain to live in is Madrid. In spite of too many immigrants go to live to Barcelona or any city of Andalucia, the majority of them go to Madrid. Moreover, the Spanish people prefer Madrid either, to work or to go out in weekend, but they prefer the mountain or a village to live in. In this essay, I intend to argue the reasons why Madrid is the best city to live in and what alternative city is the best to live in. 

Firstly, I personally believe that Madrid is one of the best cities that have a good public transport. I think, that is better live in a district because is very good communicated with Madrid. However, some people may argue, that live in the centre of Madrid is the best, because you have more transports to move where you want. These people might argue that if you live in a district probably you have to use the car, and if you live in the centre of Madrid you do not have to use it, and you can move by train, bus or taxi; even by tramway which the government are building in the centre of Madrid. Personally speaking, I think is better live in a district, because it is well communicated and you can go where you want in a little time and you do not have to use the car.

Secondly, Madrid has a great variety of places where you can go out at nights, than in other cities, like Roma or Birmingham, there is not so much variety. I am of the opinion that in Madrid, the teenage people could do too many things. Since months ago, the museums stay open all the night, they can go to concerts too and they can go to parties or to drink something, and they do not need car, because the public transport works every weekend nights with special buses, which have the same journey than underground, and have buses too, which are called "buhos", and work all the week. However, many people may argue that a better place to go out is Malaga, because the villages and districts are nearer than in Madrid; and a better place to go to concerts is Barcelona, because the majority of artists go there; or London, because the concerts are crower and with more variety of artists. But, as I think, Madrid is the best city where you can go out at nights and you can listen all kind of music and varieties.

Finally, in Madrid you can go to any city of Spain in six hours by car or in eight by bus. I believe that Madrid has great highway system that communicates it with other cities. For example, if you want to go to the beach, in three hours you arrive to Valencia; if you want to see other city, in forty-five minutes you are in Toledo; and so on. However, there are those who think that is a little slow go to these cities in bus or train because, for example, if you want to go to Malaga you spend six hours and this is not beneficent for those who have not got a car. In my point of view, I think that the highway system of Madrid it is one of the best in the world; despite of the traffic jams in the main roads of the centre of Madrid.

To conclude, in this essay I intend to give the main reasons why Madrid is the best city to live in. I think is a city of contrasts, although I think it must improve some things like the security or the public works, but I think that this will develop Madrid to other cities in the world. Finally, I think that if there is another better city to live in, it could be Amsterdam. 


