
Throughout history, peace on Earth has not been as possible as all Christmas cards say. The situation has became worse all over the world, as events of the last year prove it, like terrorists menace, Israel's war and the rise of racism against immigrants. Many people will think that peace would be possible if several rich people try to. But other people are realistic and know that it is impossible for too many reasons. In this essay, I will try to point out the different arguments concerning to in what ways peace on Earth is not as possible as it seems in world nowadays.

There are several reasons which explain that peace on Earth is not as possible as it seems. Most people believe that is impossible for us to get the peace on Earth for several reasons. The main reason is the terrorists menace and the terrorist's attacks committed in several countries all over the world. The general view is that since terrorists attacked U.S.A September the eleventh, the situation on world has become worse. There have been more wars and conflicts between civils, like the rise in racism against the immigrants or the Israel's war against Palestinians for geographical, cultural and religious causes. This argument seems difficult to deny because it seems that everybody think this and the events prove it.

However, there are too many people that would like to stablish peace on Earth. Some people might argue that this could be possible if some rich people give some of their money to try the peace on Earth. As Bono, the U2 singer suggests with his own idea of red products which benefits goes to the association against AIDS; or as some organisations that give food or money to combat poverty on Third World. Most people believe that concerts, like Live 8, could help to mentalice people to stop wars or famine in the world. Furthermore, many people help to associations with their own money, either to combat famine or supporting kids, even aiding Third World countries to develop themselves. The problem with this argument is that although everybody gives some money, it is not enough, because the wars and the interests of politicians and rich people could destroy everything.

Although there are too many people in favour of peace on Earth, is certain that most of people do not mind peace on Earth and prefers wars. The general feeling is that the non peace on Earth contributes to some politicians get richer. For many years, the wars are committed in the oil zones, like Kuwait with Geog gulf war. Most people feel that this is true because the presidents of U.S.A have had always the objective of having control of the oil zones to maintain the power over the world, so they put other reasons to start the war with different countries and get the blessing of O.N.U to get in the country. It is apparently true that politicians could manage whatever they want and some people would argue that they have the fault of everything that happens on the world, so this argument it seems difficult to deny too.

So then, this essay has considered the arguments concerning the ways of peace on Earth is not as possible as it seems in world nowadays, because of wars, poverty and gain's courage of some of the richest people or politicians that want the power. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable for everybody to stop with wars and get the balance on world, because peace is not possible, but is necessary as well.



