In our present society, in Spain, the television has become totally different than a few years ago. The fact is that the television has evolved as the viewers and their requests say trying to satisfy everybody. It could be true a great majority of viewers are really satisfied with it, but there are some people that complain about the programmes, so the government have to put some laws in favour of that people just to keep them satisfied. In this essay, I am going to argue that it seems to me, that there should be a few changes on television.

Firstly, it would appear that the morning T.V programmes seem to be the same in all channels. In my opinion, in this T.V programmes should be a change, because the children watch T.V before going to school and they see cartoons as Shin Chan or Dragon Ball Z, not recommendable for children; even if they stay at home, because they are ill or something else, they watch trash T.V, as "El programa de Ana Rosa". However, many people may argue, that the majority of people that stay by morning at home are housewives that watch these programmes and they get relax watching them. Anyway, I think that, there should be a change on morning T.V programmes to maintain the education of children.

Another point is the evening T.V programmes; the majority of which are trash T.V or serials. It appears to me that this is true because you could see "Aqui hay tomate" and at the same hour in other channel "En antena"; and if you do not want to watch them you have several serials as "Rebelde Way" or something else in other channels. I think this has to change, because the government established a law banning this type of programmes with sexual or violent connotations, to keep children safer and the channels do not follow it. Nevertheless, some of the evidences show that, if they still are in T.V, is because people watch them and probably some people say that children are in school at these moments, so they can not watch them. Personally speaking, I feel that these T.V programmes have to change too, because a kid could see them, even with their parents.

Finally, there are T.V programmes at night, where the channels fight for the prime time -which is the moment of maximum audience- after the news; so, the government established a law, so that the children could be sending to bed earlier. My point of view is that the government should not have to establish any law, because the parents, as I think, are old enough to know what things their sons can or can not see; and at night there more variety, because you could see a film, T.V show, realities or series; and on weekends, trash T.V. However, some people believe that the law must be harder with these programmes, because they could damage the children's brain, and they could argue that all the time is the same and there is no variety. But, I feel that, there is a good variety in night's T.V and must be parents who establish laws in their house.

So then, this essay has considered the different T.V programmes on morning, evening and night; and if they should change a few or nothing. Firstly, the law should change in favour of the children and their education to the future. Secondly, law should control the interests won by the enterprises. Finally, some programmes should change its timetable or its day. These are the reasons why I think T.V should be change a little.


