     
In the last few years, in U.S.A, like in many other countries, the private ownership of guns has increased; this has produced a rise in home accidents. The fact is that guns are freely available in some countries, such as U.S.A, where almost every family has got one. It may be true that terrorists attacks have contributed to this, but what is true is that people feel more afraid than ever since the terrorist menace took place in some countries; may be having guns makes people feel safer, but sometimes the private ownership of guns provokes many deathis. In this essay, I am going to argue that, in my opinion, there should be a total ban on the private ownership of guns.
     
One of the main arguments against private ownership of guns, in my opinion, is that children are able to get hold of them easily and kill someone although they would not do on purpose. In my opinion, parents could speak with elder children and try to give them the responsibility not to touch it, so he would feel important and confident with his parents. However, some people may argue that parents could hide it very well and do not show it when children are near them, nor speak about it because they can listen about the gun and get curious of it or the fact about have told to elder children about the gun could bring some problems, because children could say to their friends about the gun and his friends could press him to show them the gun, so he could feel stressed because of the trick he has done to their parents. So, I believe that parents would not have to tell anything to children if they have obtained a gun.

Other reason is that we see almost every month, in the newscasts, a person who enters in a school or university and kill some students, and then, himself. The majority of psychologists have said that almost every men who did  this, have mental problems; so, I feel that, to buy a gun, the salesman should asks for some proof about the mental state of the person. However, the solution of proofs would not be as easy as it seems, because the patients could do forgery or the person might not be sincere with the psychologist or they could accept some bribery that patients could make in them. Although, I think, that psychoanalysts should not interfere if it is not necessary, because they could not be so objective, as they seem.

Finally, I believe that the government should put some barriers to the sale of guns and take control of it; they should be harder with the giving permissions of guns, even if they are going to use them for security. Nevertheless, the government should allow them in some cases, like if a family suffer some type of violence or something else. Furthermore, I feel that the law has to be stronger with guns and the government has to be more conscient about this, because it would be favourable to the city and the world and the family have to use other systems of security, like alarms.

To conclude, I strongly believe that people should take conscience about this measure and solve it. Firstly, they have to accept the laws and follow them, so they would not buy any gun. Secondly, the government have to put a total ban, because this will contribute to disincrease the deaths in cities committed by guns. Finally, children do not have to know anything about guns or weapons, because they do not go to use them. However, this is a difficult ban, since terrorists attacks have frightened the world population, but I am sure that a total ban on the private ownership of guns, it is possible and necessary. 



