
In modern times the immigration has scaled places between the factors that the Spanish people bother it. In September, it is improved a risen increase, according to reports the barometer of Sociological Investigation Centre, coinciding with the avalanches of immigration that happened in the frontiers of Ceuta and Meilla. This fact has generated the immediate reaction of many people against it and the solution about the Government to establish a communal good. By this, in this discussion essay, I am going to tackle the subject of immigration in Spain, focusing on causes, consequences, for, against and mid-point opinion.

First of all, the issue fo freedom could be used to support the idea of immigration in Spain. A possible argument that explains the desetion of those people to another country can be the economic factor, the struggle to achieve a worthy life leve, searching an improvement about life's conditions and prospect of future. Another important point could be a political factor, as refugees, people that has a provisional protection from foreign country. In many cases, the political situation of the country forces to the emigration. Another factors are personal reasons that are not linked with economic or political situation from the country. It is the case of people that are of Europe's North, that choose to live in the Mediterranean because it is warmer. These causes could be a convincing argument: the right each person has to go out and going in in their countries. According to Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Art. 13.2). However, the problem with all these viewpoints is the important fact that lashes our country, in many cases, excessive.

In addition, to this problem is that there are many determining factors for immigrated person: his or her situation on the arrival country. There are two kinds; a legal residence, documents that recognize a legal stay in the country and illegal residence, when a person hasn't identification papers. As emotional factor, psychologist Joseba Achotegui has designated Syndrome of Ulysses to the situation of stress generated by the own processing of migration, people in irregular situation. This could be considered a realistic argument, because he or she has a emotional and social level, too, because it is translated in persons haven't got rights.

Moreover, there are a several arguments in favour of immigration. Many people believe that each person must have the right to live about his or her lifestyle. For example, (article 25.1) says: each person has right an appropriate life level, health, comfort, and specially, food, clothes, housing, medical attendance, and so on. Also, a recent study indicates that a factor of this arrival is the strng attractive of Spain. Our culture, food, lifestyle, and so on. There are who argure that the international migrations balance the world marked of job. According to Mario Vargas Llosa is convinced that the immigration of anything coulour and taste is an injection of life, energy and culture, that we would must receive it like a blessing. This could be true, although a massive assault could damage the Spanish lifestyle.

On the other hand, some argument against immigration is to maintain an appropriate lifestyle, what is a difficult assignment. There are those who believe that this people are not honest with us. A main facor could be the racism (hate or hostility towards foreign people). Those point out that foreign labor is cheap, that is, a economical harm because it is delays the modern things. It creates a social difficulties as crime and urbal violence... This seems a logical argument, because it is true that in many cases the goreigners accept jobs that Spanish people would turn down, although it is not a justibiable fact to be racists.

By other side, other factor to avoid the racism may be the control of immigrants, such as the mid-point opinion. According to the article "Espa - a Exterior", Spanish prime minister suggested to assign 400 millions euros of the relating budget corresponding to the period that includes between the years, 2007 and 2013, to restrain the illegal immigration. The objective are concentrated to achieve an effective control of the external frontiers of the U.E. and to establish relating agreements to allow illegal immigrants in their own countries. It could be argued that the best method are the agreements to avoid the excessive entrance of foreigners in Spain.

To sum up, we can see that there are a several kinds of arguments both defending and rejecting the immigration... Some of them deal with causes and consequences, the right of freedom to choose his or her lifestyle. On the other hand, issues of racism about goreign people linked with the Spanish job and another mid-point liked with the control of massive immigration. One reasonable prediction is that, due to the fast development of population is difficult to stop it.

