
In our present society, the number of accidents is very high. The root of the problem could be that we think that all it is ok, but it is not this way. We must be conscious of this fact, it is not a game, we are talking about our own lifes and we only have that key. So, I want to suggest in this essay the causes of this fact is into our next days and I deal with some advantages and some disadvantages.


The first thing to consider is how we are, in nowdays. Our lifestyle is quite fast and by this cause we go to everwhere without looking traffic signs, and though we see them, we pay attention, they (the signs) don't care. Also, many people tend to leave everything until the last second which consequently creates more pressure and many accidents are cause by this. We don't be careful.

Another reason of this system is everytime there are a lot of deaths. In the roads, many people everyday die. Though in many cases is due an another person that prompted the terrible accident. I think that in this fact is the concern of these people, in general, when someone die beyond our control, when is another person who causes the accident and we don't.

Moreover, we must consider it as an advantage. They are bother for us. So, they think this way people will learn to do all better. In my opinion, they are concentrated in teenagers (young people, in general) and in factors like the velocity, night, alcohol, absent-mindedness. There are some causes for this system is created. I see as disadvantages that maybe this possible solution is not created finally and even so we insists on not to carry out. I think it is a good idea the advertisment in television about it: "if you want to drink, that a friend of yours the car carries. Programme a new driver every night. I think it is marvellous. Then, we can't say that we hadn't information enough, because it will come untrue. These companies are bored of saying to us, day by day, although also it is their job. The consequences at this would be more and more deaths, more families deevastated and a future very sad for the new generations. Under my point of veiw, I think this we don't like anyway, of course.

By this, a possible solution to this would be to let professionals intervene. Though in many cases we don't like to heard always the same thing, it is necessary for anyone die. In spite of, the facts show that there are a lot of accidents, more than before. It is shown in television when there is a weekend or something like that. They compare it with previous years.

To conclude, we have seen the traffic accidents are very dangerous, we all know it. They let a lot of lifes devastated. So we all must put remedy quickly, for this in many cases we can avoid it. People have to be conscious and knowing that if we don't do anything about it, we won't advanced in these years ago. For my part, I feel this will be a disaster because anybody is interested in this and the proposed solutions may not be sufficient. I we continue so, finally the new system will finish with driving of many people and then I don't know if it will be better the remedy or the disease, because this fact will have a controversy.

