
Education has always been considered important because everyone need it, but it is not a very problem for the government, now he is busy in international business or in unimportant events and he leave aside this significant issue. Nowadays, the Spanish education ministry is reforming the Spanish education system; this new process will be long because the Spanish society disagrees with it. However, our government must do something because there is a great school failure in Spain. In this essay, I intend analyze objectively some different perspectives about the Spanish education system.
      
School failure is a worrying perspective concerning the Spanish education system; Spaniard students are below of the European average in knowledge and in abilities, such as, foreign languages, reading, interpretation, understanding and solving mathematical problems. A recent study indicates that it is caused by students, parents and teachers. The general feeling among experts is that pupils don't make an effort, parents don't help them and teachers don't know how adapt the teaching. It seems that everybody have to do something quickly.
      
The education ministry should involve in teachers because the ministry is only focused on students. Teaching staff sometimes has inadequate training in order to be in situation which exists in the present-day: students' diversity in the classroom, tensions and disputes between pupils. These problems cause stress and lack of motivation. Some people would believe that teachers feel a low consideration because it has little social prestige. Some of the evidence suggests that an improvement in their training may improve the situation. In addiction, teachers must have better initial and constant training; they should learn knowledge about they have to teach and good didactic strategies. They should commit to the schools and enclose the social setting of the pupils. 
      
One of the main perspectives is students. Nowadays, pupils have got a low motivation in the studies; it is sometimes caused by teachers or families. They are only interested in passing the exam; they are not interested in learning useful knowledge. Research suggests that teachers and families must demand effort, rigor, attention, interest and will. Nowadays, there are serious problems between pupils of 12-16 years old and teachers. It is necessary to raise again ESO (Secondary Obligatory Education) because it is a difficult stage for the development of the youth. 
      
Many people believe that government must be focused on schools. There are not human resources; headmasters try to take on more teacher, but the most important is take on teachers with the adequate speciality in the centre. The Spanish education system expects that the main aims of the school are: motive to students, treat the diversity and define essential knowledge. 
      
Government seems to believe that we are people to blame. Society doesn't attach importance to education. For example, there are values in media which they are different that education transmits. Society doesn't value the work that a teacher does. We must demand to the government to encourage to universities, schools, companies in order to offer courses to teaching people to read and write, learning about new technological instruments... because society must consider education important for our lives or our future. 
      
Another perspective concerning the Spanish education system is the school failure. The education minister wants to finish off it, that's why she will improve the process of teaching and learning. Also, she encourages innovative experimentation and investigation. Moreover, she wants to regain the "culture of the effort" and the personal requirement, finally, she would like to transmit basic values such as freedom, social responsibility, participation, solidarity, cohabitation... it seems that she wants to do a lot of things but it will be almost impossible to get it.
      
In conclusion, the Spanish education system seems to be seriously affecting Spanish society nowadays. It seems to depend on government but it depends mainly on society. Society must demand to government some solutions because other European countries have already remedied their problems in the education system. From my viewpoint we must make the government see the importance of this project in our society. If we don't remedy it, Spain will not develop in the education.
