

Traffic is a serious problem in Madrid because of Madrid is the crowdest city in Spain. It gets worse everyday because citizenship. Nowadays, huge traffic jams are formed at any time, even when is a peak hour due to going to work or coming back home or going to school. People from Madrid blame its mayor, because Madrid is having building works that's why they have to turn away. But another cause is that people use a lot of cars. The most of population prefers driving their own cars than using public transport. In this essay, I will suggest some solutions in order to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

There are several reasons why Madrid has these problems. First of all, there are not any police officers on main roads like M-30. The city council of Madrid should take on more police in order to control traffic; it is obvious that we need more than we have. They have to make the traffic run better. Police must be on the road in order to help citizens to avoid traffic delays. Also, the mayor of Madrid should launch a campaign in order to promote the public transport. If he did it, it would decrease traffic problems, moreover we would avoid pollution problems.

On the other hand, other solution could be using an electronic method to have the information of the state of traffic. The most of people use mobile phone, this method consists in receiving the information by a sms. It could be a resource to manage traffic, avoid traffic jams and choose the right way. This method could be through our mobile phone, the DGT (General Direction of Traffic) would text a sms to inform about the state of roads. It could improve citizens' and people's lives for those who work on roads, such as taxi drivers, bus drivers or couriers; they would not waste their time.  

In addition to these solutions, the DGT could make a television channel dedicated to traffic exclusively. It would show a life the state or traffic in Madrid twenty four hours a day. We could see in detailed way whether there are traffic jams, dead-end streets or demonstrations. Thus, we could choose another way in order to get where we want. They could give us some advice when there would be raining (for example).

Finally, another possible solution could be charge toll; a lot of governments like from London or Rome have carried out this solution. Probably, if the mayor of Madrid did that, maybe people would use public transports, it entails to having a road less busy. However, the mayor does not want to do that, because people would be against him and he does not interest him at all.

So then, this essay sum up some solutions about traffic problems in Madrid, these solutions could be proposed city council of Madrid, and then they can decide if they are valid. Having described these solutions, my own opinion is that it can be very difficult to control this area, because a lot of workers need go to their jobs every morning and a lot of them don't respect the traffic rules proposed by the police. However, I believe that it is necessary to find some effective solution to this problem.




	
