The Spanish education system has always been a debate theme. Since the dictatorship's end, the different democratic governments have created education laws according to their own ideas, consequently Spain has never had a strong law which all the people were agreed. Then, when Zapatero won the election, the new education ministry moved a debate in which teachers, pupils, parents, and other implicates could participate and give their opinions. The ministery thinks that the integration in EU, the emigrants arrival, the economic development and other changes, that it was produced in the last decades, have affected to the education. The new law  objectives are think about the present and future problems, make changes from the elementary school to the secondary education, learn languages and informatic from the first school year, educate citizens with values, and involved parents, teachers and students in the work of educate. In this essay I am going to show the different perspectives that some groups (mainly teachers, students, parents and syndicates) have used to participate in the debate.

First, the teachers have give a lot of ideas and solutions to the problems that affect their all the days. Some teachers believe that the first change should be done at the university. Nowadays, the teaching degrees have three years; these teachers say that their degrees should have four years. The first year would be common and the next three years would be the specialization. While the secondary teacher should have a year before their degree, in which they would learn pedagogy and they would have practises at an institute. Other teachers' group say that the education should adopt modern ways. These new ways will be directed to solve the problems among pupils and teachers. In addition, according to one society of philosophy teachers' viewpoint (SEPFI), the law should create with the parents, pupils, teachers and political parties' help. Also they think that the education should have quality and equity.

The viewpoints in the paragraph above are so interesting: the first teachers group give an useful idea, that the government should take into account. The second perspective seems less strong, because there are many teachers that do not want to change their old methods. Finally the SEPFI's opinion is near to the ministry project and they support it.

One of the most important opinions is the students' viewpoints. Students' Syndicate say that the education has two mainly aspects: first, the school should provide the society persons that will be able to develop a job satisfactorily. Second, the pupils should be educated in good values that will be useful in their life. If the law is based in these points, the school will be free of privileged and all the students will have the same opportunities. The problem with these arguments is that they are near the communistic ideas, and there is a lot of groups (like PP and catholic church) that will never admit of these ideas in the education system.

As FAEST, other students' association, suggest the education is an only right and the school should be public, without any religious element, with quality and equality. Also they think that should be created a new subject about the citizens' education with democratic values. Other pupils' viewpoint is given by CES (Students' Confederacy). They appear to believe that the education system should not depend on the political party that govern at that time. Also they emphasize the necessity of create a citizens' education subject.

These points are rather convincing, although the objective of a school without any religious element is so difficult in a country with a big catholic tradition. Also these viewpoints are rather near to the government opinion, and they show that the students are almost agreed with the law's project. The CES' argument about the education law changes with the different governments shows how the students want a strong law, and that law should satisfy the mostly of people.
 Then, it must be taken into account the parents' opinion. On the one hand, it could be considered the CONCAPA's (catholic confederacy of pupil's parents) perspective. They defend a school with catholic religious subject and a school private financed with public money. Also they want a law based in the previous law (LOCE) and they think that the education's law should not depend on the political party at the government. On the other hand, the CEAPA (Spanish's confederacy of associations of pupil's parents) believe that the education is a social right. They want changes, but these should be done with the parents, students, teachers and political parties' help, not only with the government ideas. Also they hope that the emigrants would be delivered amongst public and private school.
  The CONCAPA's arguments seem so strong, but the religious theme can produce debate, because it does not consider the cultural variety in our country with the immigrants' arrival. While, the CEAPA's perspective appears to be rather convincing and most tolerant with others cultures and ideas.
The workers syndicates have different viewpoints respect to this debate. First, CCOO seems to suggest that the education should not depend on who govern. Also they think that the government does not spend enough money in education. They claim that Spain needs a public school in which all the students will have the same opportunities. Also they emphasize that the teachers should participe into the new law development, because they live the school problems all the days. On the other hand, the syndicate ANPE defends a law based in the previous law (LOCE). They think that the government's project is weak, because they feel that the ministery wants to change the law according to their own ideas. In addition, ANPE says that the government do not innovate, but they return to the LOGSE.
The CCOO's opinion supports rather the government project, mainly at the point about emigrants and at the point about the teachers' participation to create the new law. Next, the ANPE's argument are rather convincing, because they consider that the previous law efficacy had not been proved, and this may be a issue that shows how the government wants to aplicate their own ideas.
So then, there are many perspectives concerning to the debate about Spanish education system. It could be seen that there are many common points among the ministery project and the teachers, students, parents and syndicates opinions. The main common points are the collaboration of all the education sectors in the new law project, the integration of emigrants culture at the school program, the creation of a school with quality and equality, which gives all the students the same opportunities and which educates good citizens with values. On the other hand, there are some themes that create disagreement, like the religion subject, the private school and the public school, or the previous law (LOCE) reform. Finally it seems to be that if all the people work together to create a new education law, Spain will have better schools with which all the education sectors will be glad. 


