The traffic problems in Madrid are a serious trouble today. Usually there are traffic jams and accidents that involve the city in a chaos all the days, also the traffic problems produce strong noises and a lot of dirt. These facts affect politics and citizens, and we should work together to change this. Therefore, this essay suggests possible solutions that I personally feel may help us to solve the traffic problems. 
	
First, it seems to me that one possible solution is to promote the use of public transport. I think that this kind of transport has a lot of advantages: you can choose a lot of ways to come to your destiny. For example, if you go at university by bus and there is a traffic jam on the roads, probably you will arrive later, but if you take the underground or train, you will arrive fine, because you will avoid the traffic jams.

However, I admit that there are many things that will be able to be better in the public transport, for example	some underground's stations and trains are old and narrow. Despite the government's city has realised some changes in the trains and the stations, I think that it is not enough to have a comfortable and fast transport, and they would spend more money in public transport. Furthermore, the public transport would be promoted by the school and the home. If our parents and teachers educate us in values like environment's care and they show us that the public transport is less harmful than the cars, for example, we probably choose the underground against a motorbike.

Secondly, I think that the buildings are one of the mainly causes to the traffic problems in Madrid. Then another solution will be the end of the buildings. Madrid is a city plenty of buildings, obviously, this fact affects to the traffic. The buildings produce traffic jams and accidents, but our politics do not look this, they spend a lot of money in buildings to improve the roads. The best example is the M-30's changes: our Mayor is spending thousands euros there. According to the web of "Plataforma M-30" the situation is similar to other times. The roads will be better but also they will reach to other places and the traffic will increase, therefore the problem will not be solved. 

Also I believe that the buildings are not a solution, because, while this finish, there are traffic jams all the days at the rush hour. According to the newspaper "20 minutos" this situation is repeated every day at M-30, in addition this road seems a rally circuit, because of the buildings. Then you will need to put your five senses, if you do not want to have an accident.

Finally, in my opinion another solution is that the city centre would be free of cars. I feel that is a good solution because we will have a place clean and with healthy air, where we will be able to spend our free time. Due to the fact that the people will not be able to arrive there in their car, they will need to find another way, for example by bus, by bicycle or on foot. Therefore we will have another way to get a healthy life.

To sum up, from my point of view there are three good solutions to the traffic problems in Madrid: Promote the public transport, finish the buildings that full our streets and converse the city centre on a walker zone. I believe that if we do these things, we will have a comfortable, clean and quiet city.
