One of the biggest problems in Madrid is the traffic. This problem raises the levels of pollution and also carries a lot of problems to our health. Here I would like to talk about the consequences of the traffic in Madrid and then, after analysing them, I would suggest some possible solutions that could be applied to fix this big problem.

Nowadays, the transport is very important: every single person with a medium life level has, at least, one car. The quantity of cars for person is increasing and every time there are more and more drivers who have a car and who want to use it to their displacements around the city, creating a big urbanite problem. 

Consequently, if the number of drivers increases, the number of displacements raises in number, length and cost. However, it is true that the number of displacements by car increases just because of different reasons such as the bad growth planning of the city that allow the construction of urbanizations, scattered, without enough services and without public transport near like the underground. At first sight, it seems like if we don't care the city, because the only important thing for us is just to be able to take our cars and go to anywhere at any time and this always ends making traffic jams and so on.

All this damages our own life quality, affecting to our own healthy (contamination, noises...) security (accidents...) and spoiling the public spaces. Moreover, it will difficult the drivers making harder drive with stress.

The excess of traffic vehicles, and of cars especially, damages the urban vegetation and the buildings, increases the greenhouse effect that makes be in danger the environmental balance, and has high economic costs for the persons, the city and the country. The current problems that generates the traffic, give place to: an energetic consumption spendthrift; pollution and noise over the tolerable limits for the health and the ecosystem; and increase of the cost of the trips in time and money (fuel, maintenance, assurances, etc.), harming, besides the commercial and tourist activity of the urban centre.

So how we could face to this problem? Firstly, in my opinion, we must provide the city of services that would connect the entire neighbourhoods and that would connect them, rightly, with the important zones of the city. These services could be a good public transport that would reduce the number of individual cars. This will make easier the daily activities that we do habitually. Next, we have to change our culture about the use of the car. It is necessary to learn when, where and how much uses it. The car is very useful and is necessary but it is not possible to use it constantly -and less when we are talking of the problems that using car always involves-. So it is necessary to facilitate pedestrian areas and areas of public transport. Furthermore it is necessary to facilitate parkings and resident's garages, juts to make the people be able to leave the car in house making it safely. Finally, what we need is a political solid commitment that would want to reduce the traffic in the city, promoting the use of the public transport, the creation of more pedestrian zones, and for example, make Madrid to follow the example of other European cities as London where is restricted the entry to certain zones of the city by tolls.

In conclusion, I believe that only a political strong willpower can achieve an improving of the mobility. This politics should support an effective system of public and collective transport with a good net of underground, buses, with a good traffic between them. 
It should invest in more pedestrian areas or in the creation of more rails for bicycles and must put tolls for certain zones of the city. In addition, all of this not only would help to reduce the pollution in the city but also would contribute to the environment, improving our own health and planet's health.





