
The war against terror is something, which is currently very present in our lives. Over the past few years, there have been countless terrorist attacks in every corner of the world, and as terrorism is a crime against humanity, it is crucial to try to put a stop to it. But how are we tackling terrorism? Is this the way forward? In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning the actions that our governments are taking.

Some people might argue that the world is, thanks to this measure, a much safer place, since security has been increased and this has messed up many terrorist plots.  It might be true that these safety measures have been necessary in a way, but up to what point can the measures imposed by different countries - especially the USA - be valid without committing an outrage against people's freedom? It could be argued that these measures can end up acting in a discriminatory way and also promoting, in many cases, racism between people.

However, there are people who believe that the world is not a safer place at all, as some governments are trying to lessen terrorism by declaring wars on other countries, which only encourages violence between countries and people, creating a situation of continuous alarm. It appears that behind these initiatives to prevent terrorism and war, governments hide other secret interests. These people claim that this situation should not be solved by war, but by dialogues and negotiations to avid the deaths of innocent people. They also believe that the use of weapons should be banished, as these can sometimes become a sort of "business". Apparently war and violence only create hate between people, increasing also xenophobia between countries, poverty and misery. According to them terrorism cannot be fought with terrorism.


Other people would say that the world has never been a safe place anyway. Nevertheless within this opinion we can observe two positions. Some of them think that the world was not safe up to the moment in which we took care of the matter by starting the war against terrorism, thinking that thanks to the intervention of the USA the world is now improving. Saying that the measurements that the United States of America has taken with the support of other countries are making nations like Iraq or Afghanistan less powerful potential threats, arguing that in certain cases it is necessary to attack violence with more violence.
Moreover, another point is that it is true that the world was never completely safe but that we only realized after the 9th of September but even after it, we now consider the world to be less safe than before and this is because now there is a major mobilization of the activists of the jihad due to the victory not only of the different attempts in New York, Madrid and London but also of the reality that one can live in nations as Iraq. Of course it is true that before nobody was thinking too much about the world being a dangerous place, but now we all think about it.



Therefore, there are many arguments concerning whether the world is safer as a result of the war against terrorism. The main arguments are in favour saying that thanks to this war the world is now safer and a better place; because we are fighting terrorism messing up new attempts planned, and this suggests that we are all united against terrorism. On the other hand we have those people who are against this war just because, from their point of view it will bring more violence. This argument seems to be quite convincing because just like they said: how can we fight terrorism by using terrorism too? 
On balance the war against terrorism might be seen as a vicious circle of violence that if we do not stop now, will bring us into a very drastic situation. 


