Throughout history wars became a military way to resolve confrontations between different countries and societies. These days this is going on in many countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan. There are political and economical reasons for it and there is a controversy about how to resolve it. This essay will consider some opinions about why the war began. 

These opinions and discussing against and favour to war has bee taken place actually, for instance some of the reasons to start conflict about Iraq's war was as a development's atomic power and massive destructive arms. Recently it has been confirmed that it is uncertain and information sources from political parties had let knowing throughout several papers saying there could be other reasons such as economical and political. But many people think this war was necessary because this country could be some kind of threat to other countries such as Kuwait's war as happened before. 
The consideration of using atomic and destructive arms to start war appears to be an unreasonable reason because they apparently they did not have such power because no body found any of this. To be a threat to others could be not a convincing reason also because there are other countries in the same situation and nobody is going to start a war with them. Perhaps the political and economical reasons are most convincing because people have many interests such as some kind of resource as petrol and they do no want to lose it.

Another reason to the war is that some of these countries became a source of terrorism because some people came from this area and the better way for it is to fight against them. Others said that terrorism could increase more if the become poorer because they are desperate and they don't have nothing to loose. Others start to said that terrorism is a big problem in many areas and it can be stopped only with fighting must be another ways for it. The last one appears to be a more convincing argument, because there is a lot of  research that said war instead finish it have been increased lately so other economical an social consideration must be taken.   

To conclude, it appears there are divided opinions and reasons about this subject. Maybe this could come from different interest such as economical, political and social but most people agree that the conflict is going on. For it, other peaceful solutions have to come, war by itself it is not enough to resolve it, so International Institutions response must take place to deal with the whole problem.


 
