In our present society immigration it is one of the most controversial worldwide issued.  All the nations from developing countries and greater part of underdevelopment have limitation at it. So emigrations may be one of the most serious problems that this civilization has to face it. There are different reasons to push people emigrate to other countries such as work, economic and politic persecution,  look for other expectative way of life, etc.... In Spain now, this problem has a debate from different political parties such as how to manage it and what should be done for it. 

Most of these people come to Spain to work because they look for other expectative way of life and apply for a job to have a regular situation. Some of them find a job and start to work but there are many they don't have a properly job so they can not regulate their situation. Spanish government through several immigration laws try to improve it but many people come and the opposition party thinks it has to be stopped. Others said that everybody has the opportunity to work because there is some kind of jobs that native people don't want to do and it could be a benefit for the country.  But some people would argue that there is already unemployment and more people has not been needn't in addition there is a lot problems already. Analysing these facts it is no easy to see what one solution it is the best but the government has to take measures to find mediation between them.  

Some of these problems come from the fact that foreign people have different culture, most of them different language, different types and colour and the salary they get it is low and they need some social help to be integrated and many social problem as racism is getting place lately. One of the main arguments against this it is the high cost to maintain it. But others believed that they are the same than others workers are and they have the same rights, that they are important for the economy as a kind of economic growth improvement and that because of the birth rate is decreasing they would be needed also. It seems probably that people are going to be needed to work but the point is what is best way to face it, seeing haw big is the problem.

To conclude, it must be said that diversity it is a king enrichment and the birth of most of the countries have been created from emigration movements. So must be an International response to find a creative solution.
