


In these days the capital death has came a controversial subject because of the condemnation President Sadam Hussein recently. We know many states provide this system in their laws even in democratic countries as EEUU. There are many people against and favour of it. Many humanitarian associations are claiming that in now days it has to be forbidden but others said that is necessary to punish people severely. We are trying to see different points of view about this issue.

Firstly, I personally believe that capital death must be banned in all countries, without any reason or circumstance people should not be murder to punish their faults. There are different kinds of guilty, some of them could be very terrible but we can not take life away from people and be murder ourselves also.  However there are those who said that criminal people should be murder in order not doing it again anymore. But we can know    verdict of guilty has been wrong in many cases after people have been murder already. Justice can make mistakes as the same of any order social issues, clues can be wrong for several circumstances and poor people do not have the same chance as rich people because the can not afford a good criminal lawyer. But others think if there is evidence of criminal facts people should be condemned in order to stop people doing the same. 
Personally speaking kill other people to stop something it is not the best solution of any thing as has been demonstrated from criminal statistics in countries where capital death still prevails.

Other strong reason to capital death is when terrorist people carry out terrorist attack.
Certainly they must be punish but I think we still have not right to take their life away from any case. Terrorists think they are right and fight against something they consider wrong. These days many countries take strong measures to others countries and people that could be out of law in the name of freedom as some International Institutions protest to it, so I consider crime acts are the same in both sides. Many people think capital death is necessary for terrorism acts otherwise they can do it again and capital death could serve as an example also for those want to take these actions. But we know from papers that instead finish them there are growing more instead. Violence gets more violence in any kind event, so we have to consider other ways of punishment to resolve problems as better education and the same opportunities for people. 

To conclude, a total ban of capital death is in my view the best way to respect one of the human rights people have. I personally believe that capital death is not a dissuading way to prevent any crime. So we have to respect International Agreements about haw to punish people without losing other essential rights.
 

  
