     
     
     

     
     Terrorism is one of the biggest issues that concern the whole world these days, being the reason of an enormous insecurity sphere among people. Taking a deep look at some research we can find, mainly, two powerful ways of thinking. 67% of world's population think that the world is not a safer place since the war against terrorism began, and, in the other hand, the rest think that actually, it is. However, they all come to the point that the reasons why the world is a safer place or is not, deal with how terrorism is being counteracted, finding here two new opinions, to war... or not to war. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments concerning the United States and Europe different points of view about how the acts against terrorism have helped the world to be a better place to live.
     
     United States president George Bush argues, "even though America is a safer place now than five years ago, we are not completely safe yet". Lee Hamilton, ex-democratic delegate, supports this idea by explaining that five years is not enough time to clear the whole world of terrorists, but still affirm that they will achieve this purpose sooner than later for the United States and thinks that the world, is in a better position against terrorism now. Lee Hamilton lets everyone suspect that if a direct confrontation is needed, it will be done that way, but in any case they will try to abolish fighting. However, Bush affirms, <Q>. United States counter-terrorism strategies since September 11th have included the freezing of Al-Qaeda's assets, the arrest and detainment of more than 2,700 suspects, and the bombings in Afghanistan which have, at least temporarily, scattered the leadership and made communication among terrorists more difficult
     
     In the other extreme, based in some research, most of the people feel more insecure at this precise moment and thinks that the world is not going through a real safe stage. These people express that violence begets violence and that, so far, they haven't seen anything else than too much uncontrolled violence. They appeal to the fact that the U.S. State Department has acknowledged, that transnational terrorism follows U.S. military intervention around the world and since September 11th more than 3,700 Afghani civilians have died from the U.S. and International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) bombing. It is apparently true that their fears come, as they say, from the reason that the line separating a successful terrorist act and a dismantled one is very thin, so that the catastrophe could come at any time.
     
     Finally, seems to be that only a small percentage of people are truly negative or totally positive when we find out that, the big majority (42% out of the original 67%), share a mixed opinion. David Bradley, responsible for security and terrorism, and, Fernando Reinares who works for "Real Instituto Elcano" are two of the main preachers of these thoughts. They seem to believe that security and protection systems against terrorism have been improved, especially in the western world. In the meantime, they also affirm that most of the initiatives taken by the United States became extremely counterproductive in many ways. Some of the evidence shows that past actions have stopped some terrorist groups a little, but some would argue that these actions could lead to anger among terrorists, so that they will use more violence and radicalism in the time to come.
     
     To sum up, we can see that some would say the world is a safer place, others would say that we are all in great danger and that the war against terrorism is lost, and most people would say that, even though the world is safer now than before September 11th, our actions should be chosen very carefully in the future because things could end up in a very chaotic situation. In any case, it has often been proved that union gives strength, and one of the main purposes of terrorism is to divide the world, so that, if the whole world joins their forces against terrorism, we might some day see our dreams come true and terrorism will be defeated.
		

