




     The traffic problems in Madrid is a principal worring, in this city actually. With the high number of people and the good types of life it is difficut find a solution from this problems. Make a some news houses zone increasing the traffic problems. The most Madrid's families hawe two cars more or less, because they need its came to work.
     One solution will be reduce the number to cars if  their price will be more expensive, then the families only have one car, but I believe that this solution is good if the families not need two cars.
In other case, I think that will be increasing the public transports lines looking for that tis lines going to different Madrid's villages, who it is so far to the center city. I think that in some places it is necessary but this solution is very expensive to the city.
The public transport must be more cheap from the people, then they will have a best access to this service. The public traffic is a good way when this service is more rentable that your own car.
Makes a more green places looking for pollution problems solutions, because will be have more spaces without car and more places with clear air.
     I believe that in this city need a best comunicating intervillages but we need make good station with security too.
Other posibility solution is makes more the times at public transport but then it is necessary increasing the workmen.
It is necessary put more frequency hours or star and finished hours in the inter villages lines.
     Other way to reduce the traffic problems will be have one day where the pir car number can driving and the following day, can driving, impairs car number. The problem is that the families buying two cars with different number.
If the people would work near at home, they not need the car and in this way, not increasing the trayect to home to woek and work to home. Only driving the car who can not change your work or use the public transport in this moment.
     The last solution that I think is doing more difficult the access to driving permiss or only to permit since twenty two years old, for example. Then would be less car and accident traffic. The problem of this solution wiil be that the some ypoung people need the car from going to the work or university.
     In conclusion, it is more necessary, to reduce the traffic in Madrid, because in this moment, it is increasing the pollution and accident and other problems in this city.
     In my opinion, think that need help for reduce this problem but we can to doing much too, if only we use the public transport, it is a more help to our city.


??

??

??

??

