All the European countries are immersed in important processes of transformation of the education, that in many cases produce internal tensions and often they perceive like crisis of the own educative system.
The subject of the formation of the citizens centers the European public debate, being reason for attention for all the social sectors, as a result of the misalignment between the educative system and the new formativas exigencies of a changing society. 
Challenges common of the education in Europe the diversity of the European educative systems necessarily does not condition the results of the education, but unamimity as far as the main detected common problems exists: the bad yields of the obligatory education, base of the common formation all the citizens; the little adaptation between the educative system and the productive system; the incorporation of the new technological advances to the scholastic world for the transmission of the knowledge; the problems derived from the massive incorporation of the population immigrant to the schools; and the rupture of the stability and the order in the scholastic establishments with the appearance of buds of violence between the pupils.
The hiring and formation systems are very different, mainly. The wage structure is diverse and the differences of average wage between the professors of a same stage between a country and another one are very ample. The professors better paid are the Portuguese, German, Spaniards, and French; and, the worse one repaid, the Danish, Swedish, Italian, Irish and, mainly, those of old communist countries of the European east. 
 In our country a tradition of permanent reform of the educative norms has existed, unlike other western systems that have enjoyed greater legislative stability. The laws promulgated by the socialist government (LODE and LOGSE) adopting a model of comprehensive education (to teach the same, with such objective, to all the students and in the same classes). During the period of the government of the Popular Party (1996-2004), a new law was promulgated that affected the organization and arrangement of the educative system, in addition to the content of the curricula: the Statutory law of Quality of Educación (LOCE). Later, one of the first decisions of the new socialist government (2004) was to paralyze good part of the application of the LOCE, being proposed elaboration of a new basic norm in the matter of education, the LOE.
The normative instability of the Spanish system obeys to factors like the political and ideological contrast, the difficulty of the educative system to adapt to the new social, cultural and economic realities and the contradiction of interests between the education networks (public-private). The intense period of educative reforms in Spain has agreed with a context of universalización of the right to the education and of decentralization to the autonomies. Growth of the spanish educative system
 In Spain, the educative system has happened to take care of less than half of the population in scholastic age to reach the levels of neighboring countries. At qualitative level, the educative system has undertaken a deep transformation of its objectives to the changes of articles of incorporation, cultural and scientific, besides to raise, for the first time, the universalización of good part of the secondary education. 
At the present time, the situation is the opposite one: the scholastic of children between 3 and 5 years clears the 100, a number that in years 90 did not arrive at the 50; in the strip between the 6 and 15 years (obligatory and gratuitous educative stages) the total scholastic has been reached; postobligatory secondary education has increased until the 70, although it continues being an inferior rate the European average. The university population has experienced a remarkable growth, with 4 students by each 100 inhabitants, which supposes a third of the people between the 19 and 23 years, of which near the 55% they are women. 
As far as the public cost in education, the decentralization process has been one of the most important changes in the last twenty-five years. At the moment, near the 90 of the cost in education it is into the hands of the autonomic governments. In investment, Spain locates itself in the low zone of the countries developed without reaching the average of the European Union, only in front of Portugal and Poland and occupying place 18 of the 23 countries of the OECD. 
The success of the European educative systems is based on the social cohesion, the systems of formation of the teaching staff and the good operation of the scholastic centers. 
The of the European educative systems tend to orient themselves more and more towards the doctrine of the competitiveness and the economic competition, instead of the equality and the social cohesion. 
In my opinion, there is no consensus between the countries on the formulas to follow to obtain the scholastic integration of the different minorities in relation to his cultural characteristics, their language, etc. All it in a context whose main target must be that neither the social condition nor the origin predetermine the scholastic trajectory.




