
Terrorism is a real problem in the present society. There has always been fights between countries but the problem of  violence, has recently been increased by some reasons.

 One of the main reason was the Irak war which provoked more terrorism by the islamic countries. Because of the deal about EE.UU, Great Britain and Spain, islamic countries  began to attent against that countries. First against EE.UU the 11 of September 2001, when two aeroplanes crashed into the twin towers in the World Trade Centre, then against Spain, where a lot of bags exploded in some trains in the capital of Spain the 11 of March 2003, and finally against Great Britain where the underground wagons, and buses of London were attented too before the city was chosen to prepare the next Olympic games. Not only this attaks ocurred; in islamic countries there are suicide attaks every day and there are still conflicts in some countries  like Israel, Palestina,Lebanon,etc, where many people including children, die every day.

Since all of that ocurred, the gobernments have put some measures to try to make the world a safer place. Some of this measures are that in the international flights to EE.UU is forbidden to carry sharp objects or liquids as all the objects that police would think are dangerous. Police can forbid suspicious people to take the flights or to go out of the country.

Of course since all of that terrorists attaks ocurred, the world seemed to be safe because the gobernments started to control everything and everybody who entered in the country. Now there is a new rule which forbid carrying liquids into the aeroplanes because they might be dangerous or poisonous for the health, or could be explosives to attak someone or something.
      
       
On the other hand, having so much control about terrorism is not safer, so that we would have to have less liberty. But maybe if we invert ecconomically in those islamic terrorist countries as Irak,Iran,Siria, we will not have to have less liberty because they could see us as equal countries and they will not feel humilliated by first world countries.
      
Although there is a lot of control in the whole world wars still exist and thousand of people die every day because of this problem so the world is not a safer place, the safer places are only the first world countries but not all, because EE.UU is still threatened by islamic countries. A situation which happened as a result of the war against terrorism is that both Irish and Spanish gobernments are making some deals with the terrorists to finish the violence in that countries.
      
Terrorism has always been part of the world and it is very difficult to solve it, although if all the countries will have deals with his enemies, this would be a good form to erradicate it. Maybe the world could be a bit safer if we would know that countries like North Corea have not got an attomic bomb which could be send whenever they like to.
Although it is very difficult to be safe when you know that you can die a minute later if a person want it to.

To sum up, if we continue with the new mesures, and dealing with our enemies, maybe we could make the world a better place, but if some countries continue with their conflicts and their wars and making dangerous things like attomic bombs, this world would never be a better place as a result of the war against terrorism.
      
      
      
      
      

