
Madrid has a lot of traffic problems and that is mostly provoked by the crowd of people it has and because of the number of cars  the families have. Most part of the families have at least two cars in their houses and the most part of time, both cars are out because people need to work and they need them to go to their jobs.

In my opinion, there are many forms to reduce traffic in this kind of cities but especcially in Madrid.

A really good form to reduce the traffic, would be to go everywhere by public transport (train,bus,underground,etc.)
Other really good form would be to share the vehicle with mates.
Another forms to reduce it would be to allowd one day going out  even number plate cars and the next day the odd number plate cars. This measure has been proved in some other places but it is not working very well. Other measure would be to make the cars go through other places so not everybody will go by the same street. I would suggest that the entrance hours of jobs could be changed so that some people could enter at 8 o'clock in the morning and others at 9 o'clock in the morning. The entrance hour of schools could be changed too, so some pupils would enter at half past eight in the morning and others at half past nine.

Another good measure which is the one that convinces me most, it would be to build big guarded car parks in all the entrances of the city which will be very well connected to public transport so that people will not have any problem to leave their cars in those huge car parks and go by public transport to their jobs, but to do that, public transport will have to be increased, and that will be the only measure by what people who live outside Madrid will not go with their cars to the center of the city.

Finally, not allowding cars go through some streets since a determinated hour. Since that hour the street would be a pedestrian street.

Although there are a lot of possibilities to reduce the traffic problems, some of them would be completely imposible to make. For example the measure about the number plate cars. I am completely sure that many people would buy two cars, one with even number plate an the other with odd number plate so that they could go out everyday although that will supose a not necessary expense.

The measure of making people go through other streets would be a problem because the gobernment should have to do more roads and that will supose roadworks and because of the roadworks would be more traffic jams.

The main problem to change the entrance hours of jobs would be that people who would enter at 8 o'clock in the morning would be jealous about the people who would enter at 9 o'clock in the morning because they can sleep one more hour although that will benefit them because  they will come back home before.

From my point of view, the only measures which could be eficient are to go by public transport or to share the vehicle with mates,and building those huge car parks, but to do that, is necessary a lot of money and of course people would become aware of the problem the city is suffering which from my point of view is very serious because thanks to the number of cars that there are and the pollution they make, the world is changing to worst. An example of that, is that so many people day after day are suffering from allergies and other complicated illnesses which in some years time if it continues, could be even mortal illnesses.
