
      Nowaday we live in a world where everything is makes a row. If we have a look to the news papers we can find everyday a lot of news which really worried about us. I therefore intend to give a general opinion of factors which I think are important. 

     
 The first issue I consider perhaps the most important is International     Terrorism because it can brings terrible consequences in a next future. Also because I think it is which has less possibilities to be solved by a pacific way. 
 
Another reason is that all counties should keep together to fight against terrorism and it seems so dificult. Some countries as USA for esample, always try to solve problems using arms and perhaps that is not the best solution because we use the same way they use to fight.

Perhaps is a problem that we never could understand because it is a religion's problem. This is the eternal debate about religion, which is complete respectable for me but I believe that any religion mustn't lead to face to people to anotherones. An important cause of this problem is the presence to a leader who is basing on religion and involving innocent people to die commiting criminal actions.

The second important issue for me would be hunger in the three world. I can't believe that thousand of children died each day in the world because they haven't anything to eat, when everyday ain all countries we throw a lot of  food to dustbin due to is expired. What happens? Is this a political problem then?

The worst thing is that everybody know about this problem but we don't make anything to avoid it. Possibly because we have get used to ear speake about this or just because we think we can't do anything. 

I can't understand why goverments instead of spend a lot of money in arms or in atomic boms does't  invest this money helping all that countries that have no means and they can't cultivate their lands and feed people. I think people as less money as they have are people who most compromise with this causes. Perhaps because money make they blind. Another times may be because we don't see how this people die everyday and we can't imagine the issue as they can.

A possible solution will be to help this countries to develop and make possible they could have drinkable water. And of course they could have more medical assistance. If every rich countries gave them a minimun helpful I am sure it will be enough to improve their hunger.

The last important issue for me, of course less important than the two others mentioned, but really worried for young people in spain , would be the hight cost of housing and also the mortages which are rising a lot nowaday.

In my view today if you are single and you want to leave your parent's home, it's almost impossible. You must buy it with another person because if you don't, you can't afford payments on your own. Or another possiblity will be to buy your own house, but you know you are going to have to go to eat to your parent's home because if you pay your mortage you could'n do the shopping.

I think it is incredible because there are many people who are earning a lot of money with this issue. For example people who sell houses with an speculative character. These are people who have money and buy houses when are being building just for investment and they pay an small amount, for example 6.000 Euros, and before the house has been finished they sell it to another person. And just in a few months they have win the double amount they have been paid before.

Perhaps we could stop it if we dind't buy anything but everybody need to have a house to live. You are not going to live all your life with your parents. So you have to work harder, or you have to ask for help to your family to pay it. But you earlier or later have to do it.

In cloncusion I think is not easy to make a solution for all that problems . I believe that some of this problems are caued by politic. I am sure it will be easier if we would try to forged just for a moment all money's  interest we have and to look for our own human part. It will be fantastic but I know it's impossible. 


  

   
