                                                   
                                            



Nowadays education in Spain is argued from part of goverment, students, teachers and parents.  Spain is situated at 26th place in education development , under almost every countries in the European Union. The ranking placed spanish education  at  the same level than Hungría, Trinidad and Tobago. Also a new university law has been  approval  and it  takes place to a new different opinions between politiciams and students. In  this essay I am going to show the different arguments that  they have about  this new law and about spanish education.


A recent study indicates that goverment only invest in education just an 4.5 per cent of  the Unworked National Product, amount completly lower than  every countries  in the European Union.  Spanish goverment  is trying to get  the immigration  integration into the educative system, the support in Professional Formation studies and also fighting against school failure. To face up to the rest european countries that fight to get more competitive economic and scientific in education.


Concerning to the teachers, a recent survey marks that exist a professional crisis which takes place to a kind of dissatisfied and no motivation from part of them. Several causes are marked for example, 
salaries which they think are not enought in comparision with her/his efford, althought this survey says that teacher's salary in spain is higher than in europe countries. And another important reason is the classroom violence.  Some teachers suffer really hard aggressions from part of students and these situations create insecurity in teachers.  










But not all the results are negative. Has been shown that the universitaire population has experimented a grown up in spain. In the last 30 years the access to university for women has increase. But also university access depends on the social conditions of each family.  It is shown that students which have less economic possibilities  access to short carrers opposite to families with a high economic power, which invest even three times more in their children education.
For this reason goverment  is trying  to concede more economic opportunities to students  which families can't afford payments for university with more grants and helps.


Another possible argument would be the new University Law, the Education Minister Pilar del Castillo has bring out this law which all sectors object to. For socialist group this law doesn't adapt to the european education model.  It doesn't satisfy needs of the workable market and either raise the grands. They also criticize that this law doesn't finish with private centers which doesn't give a good education, and seems to be that it was one of the objetive of this law. By the other hand, Education Ministry said that private centers has the same inportance than the public ones.


Students said that there will be an university teaching of first and another one of second. And also criticize the loosing of control from part of the goverment in universities. They don't know how is going to be this law at the end due to it let doors open to new modifications. Althought almost  75 per cent of these students unknown this law. CES said that this law has some positive points and also thanks to goverment that have had more carefull in quality aspects than in politic interest. 











Some professors and teachers support this university law. They consider it could include improvements to  make  universities advance.
They have made a report with proposal in order to inprove functions. Also they sorry about the confront this law has produced between politiciams. And they want to express their refuse to the diferences between men and women  at the moment to choose teachers because both should have  the same opportunities. 


In conclusion, education in spain is not well considered if we compair it  with the rest of european countries. In order to solve this problem goverment bring out a new law which provokes several reactions and also face to politiciams from diferent parties. The thing is that during this is happening students in spain are losing the opportunity to improve their teaching. So goverment should have to invest more money in education and teachers and students should acept these new teaching methods like in europe are doing . 
  




