
For many years, traffic jams seem to be a real problem in the city of Madrid for many people who travel by their own car, by buses or, even, on food. The situation has recently got worse in the city with the burning of road-works and because day by day there are more and more private cars on the roads. The worst problems are located in the morning, when people usually go th their jobs, and in the evening, when workers has finished their day's work and come back to their houses. However, in this essay I will try to suggest some solutions that I believe would reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

In my own view, there are many things that people and government could do in order to solve these problems. Of these, promoting the public transport would be an effective solution. This is supported by the fact that Madrid has one of the best transport systems in Europe. Madrid has more than 300 lines of urban and interurban buses, 228 kilometres of underground, regional trains, etc. Nevertheless, many people do not find public transport as comfortable as their own car, arguing that they arrive faster and they do not have to wait for the bus or the train. However, I strongly believe that taking the car is more expensive and it is easier to get into a traffic jam day by day.

Speaking personally I feel that these traffic jams are caused in most of the cases by the road-works. In my opinion, these road-workds shoud not take place at the very same time. Madrid is holding more than 200 road-works around the city at the moment. As a result of this, many lanes are closed to the traffic. It could be admissible once or maybe twice, but nor five times in the same trip. On the other hand if we put up with all the road-works at the same time, once finished we will enjoy the new roads, parks, underground stations, etc. However, a city need grow, and once finished these works they will probably start again in other places.

I believe that driving through a working area is more difficult and it makes drives drive worse. In my opinion, controlling the driving code, by fining drivers who do not drive properly, would be another possible solution. It would make drivers comply with current regulations and driving saver. It is said by experts that accidents produce many of the traffic jams. It could be argued by other people that they think they drive very well, and they must not be controlled by agents or cameras. Nevertheless, a recent pilot scheme which consists on putting a radar which controls the speech, revealed that many of the drivers drove faster than the limits established.

For my part, I feel that this solution could be possible if the government would increase the number of the mobility agents, who are already created. With more number of this type of agents many accidents wouldn't been produced. The functions of these agents are to make drivers complying with the driving code, organise the traffic in some problematic zones, and show pedestrian where and when they must walk. However some people feel that spending public money on training, wearing and maintaining them is not reasonable. In my opinion spending money on agents who will take care of us, solve some traffic problems, and even, make the driving saver is not a real expense.

In conclusion, this paper has focused, from my point of view, on some possible solutions to reduce the increasing traffic problems in the city of Madrid. Four main solutions have been covered: the promotion of the public transport, not to make all the road-works at the very same time, the control of the driving code and the increase of the mobility agents. For my part, I believe that many people are concerned about this problem and all together could reduce the traffic in our city. I strongly feel that using the public transport system would make solve the problem easier.

