
Since civilisation began, immigration has seem to be the solution for many families around the world to improve their economical level and their life. Spain is, at the moment, one of the cointries in the European Union which receive the most number of immigrants. They usually come from the North of Africa, South America or Asia. The biggest cities in the country, such as Madrid, Barcelona or Valencia, are the most affected by this fact. What immigrants look for in our country, when they arrive Spain, is a better place where live, a decent job, and watch their children growing up in an appropriate environment. However, in this essay I will try to collect some of the main viewpoints about this issue.

There are many viewpoints concerning this issue, many people is totally for immigration, another part of the society is completely against, and a great numbel of population is for immigration in some aspects and against in others. Some people would argue that immigration is really useful for nowadays society. They believe that living among people from other countries makes our culture richer. Many argue that they have never had problems with immigrants and, what is more, they feel very comfortable living with them, and think that they are more polite than we are. Nevertheless, this point is rather convincing, although many of these immigrants fo not allow us to know and learn about their own culture. It is very common to see many groups formed by south American people, who do not mix with the rest of the population. Maybe, they are afraid of losing their countries' culture if hey mix with us.

An increasing part of the society, as many surveys carried out say, tend to believe that immigration is completely inadmissible. This idea is supported by people with ultra-right politics ideas, such as falangistas, neo-nazis, and so on. They think that they come here in order to steal us, arguing that they are not used to work and they prefer stealing to working. It is though by them that immigrants get our jobs by working for less salary than us, so it is preferred by employers. And extremist idea, who some of them argue, is that they are a foreign race, and they are destroying our "Iberian race" by mixing with us. In spite of this, it seems reasonable to consider that travelling to another country, different from theirs, is a difficult task. They arrive in order to solve their problems. They are usually working very hard to send some money month after month to their family in their countries.

The rest of the society, that is the biggest group, has not got these extremist opinions. Some think that imigration makes our culture richer nevertheless they argue that immigrant must not try to change our culture for theirs. Others believe that they can stay here only if the have a good behaviour; working and living in peace with the rest of the community. There are some who strongly believe that they msut not arrive to spain althoug they would come here with a contract of empoyment from their native country. Furthermore, there is a general fear through the inhabitants; they are afraid of their jobs. They do not want to be replaced by an immigrant. These seem logical arguments, because nobody want neither crime in their own neighbourhoods nor be replaced in their jobs.

To sum up, we have seen that there are many different points o view about a real problem in our country nowadays - the immigration. The grat majority of the population believe that it is quite good, because we can learn new things about their culture, nevertheless, others think that immigrants are dangerous for spanish, because they believe that they come here not to work, only to steal. Between both opinions, there are many who believe that it is okay only sometimes, depending on their intentions, behaviour, an so on. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable for everybody to try to be tolerant with everybody in spite of where they come from. Working all together, a better world would be possible.

