
These days terrorism is a word that we often hear in news, which we read in newspapers, a word present in almost everybody's life. In our present society many people think that the war against terrorim could make the world more safety and many people do not. In this essay we are going to see some different arguments that people use concerning the war on terrorism. 
The War on Terrorism is a name that today refers to a military campaign launched by the United States, with support from The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and other allies, immediately following the September 11, attacks which were supposed to be carried out by al-Qaeda. Research suggests that the campaign's stated goal is to end international terrorism by preventing groups defined by the US and its allies as "terrorism" from posing a threat to the US and its allies, and by finishing the state sponsorship of terrorism the finance, equipment and intelligence material given across international boundaries to terrorism organisations and the families of deceased militants for the purpose of conducting or rewarding attacks on civilians. But some people would argue that this has not given any benefits to the countries who do not want to be a part of de US's allies because if you do not belong to the alliance's group your country will be isolate, apart from the rest. 
In the other hand, United States President George Bush declared the "War on Terror" in 2001, and is considered its leader; British Prime Minster Tony Blair is considered his closest ally. The United Kingdom has been a particularly strong supporter of the campaign, although many other nations' governments have been involved. In addition to the September 11, the war has responses to terrorist attacks in Israel, Russia, Indonesia, Iraq, Spain, Egypt and the United Kingdom. In theses countries the alliance against the terrorism seems to be a very safe way to fight it, although there may be some true in this but the Islamic groups have tried to attack these countries as soon as they have formed part of the alliance. 
The War on Terror has often been compared to the Cold War, in that it has been characterized at times as both a "real" war, and as a war of ideas, like the various proclaimed "wars" on drugs, poverty and other issues. It seems to be that many people feel that war against terrorism is a terrorism act itself because in this war loses their lives at least the same number of victims as in terrorism acts. It would appear that this is not true but if we make he sum of the number of injured people plus the psychological diseases the result is a bigger number of victims as a consequence of war against terrorism.  For example, due to continuing insurgencies against coalition occupying forces and against the coalition-supported democratic Iraqi government, Iraq has come to be seen by the Bush Administration as "the main front in the War on Terror". 
So then, there are many arguments concerting the safe of the world, but it is believed that war against terrorism and terrorism itself seems to be seriously affecting the safe of the world. The general feeling is the change of a diplomatic issue instead of a war. The main argument in favour is the balance of the number of victims, who always are the losers in both war and terrorism. On the other hand, there are countries which are out of the alliance and the general feeling is that they are alone. Possible solutions may be: a better relationship between muslin and catholic cultures, a bigger tolerance and respect to the different customs and the UN should develop more relevant actions. On balance, the general feeling is a safe world without war or terrorism in it.
