
Nowadays the Spanish society seem to be affected by a lot of problems, it might be because we are many people living in our country and we are very different, so it is difficult to get on along with each other. In this essay I intend to consider the ones that affect myself in a higher way, which are the racism and the fear produced by immigration, the problems of young people when they have to buy a house and terrorism.

Racism and fear produced by immigration has long been a problem. This seems to be because there are two kind of foreigner, the kind of people who come to Spain to try to make their life better in a honest way and the kind of foreigners who come to Spain to try to make their life better in a wrong way by stealing and if it is necessary by assassinating. Some of the evidence shows that another reason of racism is the lack of knowledge of a different culture, this is because foreigners try to preserve their customs even if they are very different than ours. The government should make new laws about immigration, in order to avoid racism and the fear that it produces.

Other of the greatest problems in the current society is the inaccessibility housing. It is an evidence that the house's price have increased a lot so a normal salary can allow it. Young people can not accede to a mortgage because they should pay more than they earn. This situation supposes that the fifty per cent of young people in Spain lives in their parents house. It seems that one of the reasons of this situation is the existing speculation in all the real estate sector. Many investors dedicate their savings to buy different houses waiting to earn a lot of money by sailing them months afterwards. 

Some of the evidence shows  that the low price in the mortgage in the last years has produced that many houses had been sold and some people had been enriched. Now, the mortgages are growing up and the people who have bought a house with a high price but with a low mortgage are submitted in a very bad situation, because now they must pay a great quantity of interests. The government should solve this problem. It is necessary to stop the speculation and to go to normal prices in the housing so young people would be able to buy a house. 

Finally the third problem that most affect me is the terrorism. Some of the evidences shows that Spanish people's life have been changed since the terrorist attack of the eleven of March two years ago. There are not words that can describe what we felt. The main reason is that the people who died that day will never come back, second is that it was too bloody and the third reason and the most important is that we still do not understand why, there is no reason for this kind of behaviour. We have had this problem for a long time and it seems to be very difficult to be solved. Different government have tried to solve it in different ways but if some people don not change their minds it appears that it will never end.

So then, we have seen that there are several problems that affects the Spanish society today, the ones that I have described are the ones that affects me in mayor intensity racism, inaccessibility housing and terrorism. On the basis of this, it would seem to be a good idea if the government study this problems, make new laws and think in the Spanish society instead of thinking on their selves most of the time.
