
	In our present society terrorism is one of the most worrying problems. Is quite difficult to define "terrorism" (for example, the United Nations still has not reached consensus on a definition of "terrorism"). Nevertheless terrorism can be defined as the systematic use of violence and intimidation to achieve some goal. The war on terrorism is the name of a campaign with the stated goal of ending international terrorism by preventing those groups said to be terrorist in nature from posing a threat, and by putting an end to state sponsorship of terrorism. This campaign was launched by the United States, with support from NATO and other allies, following the September 11, 2001 attacks on New York City and Washington. Many people think that today the world is a safer place due to this "war"; but other people are completely against this statement for many reasons. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning the war on terrorism.

	Some people argue that today the occidental society is safer than six years before. First, because at the moment countries are ready for possible terrorist attacks. Second, because security on airports and cities is higher than before. According to some researches the security budget has been increased from the last six years from 6% to 20%. Thanks to that there is a wide cooperation between countries in order to share information about possible suspects and terrorist. In many cases bureaucracy is reduced because the importance of cooperation between different countries. It seems to be a close world in the war on terrorism. Despite this, terrorist attacks temptations have been consummated during the last years, even if the security level is quite high. That shows that, however, these specific measures are not enough for insuring security in our planet.

	On the other hand many people point out that the war on terrorism reduce civil liberties and infringe upon human rights. Governments have restricted civil liberties and created a "culture of fear". President Bush had proposed Total Information Awareness, a federal program to collect and process massive amounts of data to identify behaviours consistent with terrorist threats. The main problem in this "culture of fear" is that some people who are against this polity are accused of being unpatriotic or even treasonous for simply disagreeing with the administration. Nevertheless the governments argue that they must collect information about their own citizens. Without this information they wouldn't be able to prevent terrorist or other attacks.

	Another point would be that the "War on Terrorism" is effectively an act of terrorism in itself. Critics point to incidents such as the Bagram torture and prisoner abuse scandal, the alleged use of chemical weapons against residents of Fallujah and the use of military force to disperse anti-American demonstrations in Iraq. Many people would say that interrogation methods employed by the U.S. forces violate international Geneva Conventions. These arguments appear quite convincing because violence is not justified in any case, even though if these methods were the only way to have a safer world. 

	Finally, it could be claimed that governments create a state of perpetual war. George W. Bush said that it would not end until every terrorist group of global reach had been found, stopped and defeated. Critics have argued that terrorism is itself only a tactic which can never be defeated. A world without terrorist groups should be wonderful but a recent research says that there were 4.319 victims of terrorist attacks but 92.469 killed in the war on terrorism. This appears to be a more convincing argument, because the war on terrorism caused more victims than the terrorism itself so for these victims the world was not a safe place.

	To sum up, there are many arguments concerning the "War on Terrorism" and its effects on world security. The main argument in favour is the fact that now the world is a safer place because of the increase of security measures. On the other hand, this "war" reduces the civil liberties and infringes upon human rights, is an act of terrorism and causes more victims than the terrorism itself. On balance, the war on terrorism might be seen as a diplomatic issue and it should be solved having conversations instead using weapons and destruction. In this way the fear would be reduced and the world would be safer than today.



