
	For many years politicians have been discussing about which are the most worrying social issues. Some of them believe that the most important one is unemployment. Others think that drug addiction is more important than unemployment. There are many points of view about it and is not easy to find a common answer that satisfies everybody. In this essay I intend to choose the three social issues that I think are the most worrying at the moment.

	Firstly, I personally believe that unemployment is one of them. The unemployment rate increased sharply during the first quarter of the year. That rate remained stable during the second quarter and decreased in summer due to temporary jobs created in this period. After this phase there was a gradual increasing. Everyday becomes more and more difficult for young people to find their first job. High qualifications, language and computer skills are required everywhere, also if these qualifications will never be used in their daily work. Some people believe that language or computer skills are always necessary in any kind of job (also if is a craft work) because that shows that the employee is clever, capable and has ability for learning different tasks. Nevertheless, I feel that this is a way of discrimination. People who have no ability for learning languages or computer skills are often refused and this is rather frustrating for them. Many people never had the possibility of learning languages but they are good workers as well.

	I would argue that another worrying social issue might be the illegal immigration. Spain is the "entrance of Europe" and that is the reason why many people from other continents (mostly from Africa) come here. They come to Spain looking for "the promised land" and the situation that they find here is not the one they imaged. The luckiest find a job and, even if the salary is quite low, they can remain here for a period. Other immigrants are repatriated to their countries. Some people say that illegal immigration is directly connected with unemployment. These people strongly believe that immigrants are employed instead Spanish workers. However, I personally feel that immigrants are engaged for doing necessary works that a Spanish worker would never do. This issue is quite complicated. Some businessmen try to cheat immigrants. They never engage them or they never pay them overtime.

	Finally, I think that the third issue might be violence on the media. Nowadays, we are surrounded by violence, on television, films, advertising, internet, etc. That is mainly dangerous for children. Children's behaviour is strongly influenced by the media. Riot and aggressive videogames and TV's programmes can create aggressive behaviours in them. Unfortunately, we often read on the newspapers cases from parents who have been mistreated by their own children. That happens all over the world. It does not matter the nationality, religion or social class. Some people argue that children's behaviour is the responsibility of parents and they are the only who can censured the information that their children receive. Nevertheless, I think that for parents is almost impossible to do that. A child is continuously learning so you cannot put your child inside a "big bubble", isolated from the real world. 

	To sum up, I have considered that unemployment, illegal immigration and violence on the media are the most worrying social issues at the moment. Also if there are other problems in our community, all we are affected for at least one of these three issues that I have remarked. I am sure that solve all these problems is not easy but I think that the government should try to control these social issues and should find a suitable solution. 




