       Some years ago, an horrible event blunted the society in a lot of different places. A terrorist group made attempts on a number of important cities in the world; London, New York, Madrid... and after those illegal acts, the governments start a great stage of war against terrorism. This essay look for opinions about if the world is (or not) a safer place after all that war against terrorism. There are a lot of different points of view about this topic, and in this essay I will try to talk about some of them, attempting to explain and analyse the different reasons which could persuade some people to follow them.
       For some people It is reasonable to argue that last conversations between terrorism groups and some governments are an evidence of the real situation of peace. One of the clearest examples is the Spanish situation with ETA. (ETA is a nationalist group from the north of Spain; they reclaim Cataluña like independent of the rest of Spain, and their methods are violence and kill) A lot of people think that those conversations between government and ETA are the first step in the fight against the war and violent actions. In special people from Cataluña who would like to obtain results in their independence without violence. This group think that, actually, Spain is a safer place because we are in truce with ETA.
       Other group suggest that conversations are only a fraud from terrorist to take a rest to prepare new tactics and develop war actions. They think that we are only waiting for a new and more harmful attack. One of the main arguments to believe that we are not in a safer world (or country) is the argument supported by the associations against terrorism in different countries. For example the AVT (Asociación de victimas del terrorismo) in Spain too is an important group who proclaim that is not possible to converse to terrorist.
       Also could be argued that to watching television is normal to see terrorism thorough the world; these days, in NEWS, a lot of different channels like CNN are showing the war in Iraq, tens of dies in Baghdad... Some people might argue that all those violent actions are a caind of terrorism which affect all us, making unsafe our actual world. In the other hand, another group of people who watch TV too could say that governments are making a god work with terrorists. A number of people could believe that the invasion on Iraq, the war against Bin Laden, or the execution of Sadam Jusein are feasible methods against the terrorism.
       The paragraph before talk about governments and their decisions, and this is another important point inside this topic. In special the role of govern presidents likes George Bush or Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Their decisions and ideas about terrorism are really important in the actual society. For example, according to a CNN article, American government has developed a caind of training against terrorist (Mirror Image; "Mirror Image is an intensive, one-week classroom and field training program, designed to realistically simulate terrorist recruiting, training techniques and operational tactics (...)." www.terrorism.com). Is possible that some people would support those actions, but another group would be against. 
        In conclusion, there are a lot of different points of view in that topic, and all of that are supported on a (more or less) logical base analyzing the different situations. The main arguments in favour support that these days, our world is a safer place to live, and use some different arguments like the effective fight against the terrorism or the development of pacts with terrorists. In the other hand, the arguments against talk about all that pacts and fights like a mistake, the worse way that we can take to the peace. 
