Actual Spanish education system is consequence of many and very recent changes that different political parties have made during their legislatures. The official opinion that Education Ministry gives, is that the actual system gives children a common education to make possible that they acquire basics cultural elements about oral expression, lecture, writing and arithmetic and help them to have autonomy nowadays .The question is if all this good ideas works in our education system when they are carry out. In this essay, I'll try to discuss the different points of view, that support or not the actual Spanish education system.  


One of the main arguments that detractors of actual system give, is in witch form, the actual system includes on it the immigrants, the problem is that administration conduce them only to public schools and not to the privates ones. They also suggest that public schools can admit the new demand of place that immigrants need, but it is not being made in a right way, because it is generating a lot of differences between ones and others.

As we have seen in other countries like France, different social statements are consequence of their worse integration, mainly caused by their education system. Spain could make the same errors but is possible to smooth differences giving more time to this student and helping them in the change between primary and secondary school.

Another thing is political change. It should be a common agreement, this is the published opinion in " El economista digital" in it's publication of November 7, referring to the lot of changes that our education system has suffered and suffer when a different politic group has the power.

Is easy to think that a common accord that gives stability to the system is necessary to change politicians without changing the education system.

In words of Enrique Mugica Herzog, national institution's president <R> with the LOE ( the last modification of education system), the Spanish's education system has stability and flexibility. Flexibility is important  because education system must be adapted to the new needed changes, Scientifics, technological and cultural advances. But he said that is also important stability because people and material used, is not an improvised thing, and they need time to work.

In contrast to this the spokesman of the opposition (PP), Adolfo Abejon, said that LOE is not better neither for the quality of education system, nor  for family's liberty, and he also said that it will not reduce differences with other countries. He said that LOE, is the way to break the only model that all the autonomies have, closing the doors to pupils.

For Enrique Mugica, actual system is one of the best in the world, but is possible that the two necessary things that he says that our system has, could be utopias. If our system has stability and flexibility, scholastic failure wouldn't exist, in actual way. But system is not as catastrophic as Adolfo Abejon wants to show us. 

In conclusion is necessary to establish a direct relationship between scholastic failure and changes in education system. cholastic failure is increasing day by day, it is possible that LOE has a lot of good things for students but also is  possible to think that something is not working when Spain is at the end of the list with Trinidad y Tobago, in the ranking of scholastic failure. Actual situation, is not as good as it could be, but we must not be afraid about family's liberty.


.



