Child abuse, drugs abuse and sexual transmitted diseases are the most worrying issues these days .Fist of all, child abuse is a serious issue in the society .It can include: physical, emotional  or sexual abuse and neglect. Second, the use of drugs can lead to behavior that causes difficulties at home and in their own job. Sexual transmitted diseases is also another important problem in our society; not having protected sex with someone is one of the main reason of this. In this essay  I am going to explain all this points.

   When a child is sexually abused, there are some symptoms to make it out. 
The child's behavior will change a lot. He / she will rather be alone and reject some activities in which they participate. Child abuse is a serious issue in the society. It can include: physical, emotional or sexual abuse and neglect. In the drug's matter the personality changes, less interest in family activities, increase of arguments, needing more money for them. Drugs use can also lead to big changes in your life. Ignorance the rest of the world, living in a world with no real friends. Unprotected sex with someone is one the main reasons of this. Furthermore, the use of drugs is related to the occurrence of unsafe sexual behaviour that brings  to the adolescent to pregnancies or contracting sexually transmitted diseases such as VIH/ AIDS .About  Sexual transmitted  diseases  we could see that although there are a lot of information around this,  there are still a lot of disinformation too . At school students are probably the best informed about it and yet they still need more education, but adult people need to know more about this and take care about it. There a lot of campaigns that help to know a lot about good sex without fright for these diseases
     
   In conclusion, we have seen how the child's behavior changes because of the abuse ,the drugs' s efecct and how a person can change his lifestyle to a worse one and disinformation about sex could be stupid for our lifes getting them in serious danger.
On the other hand, some people say that it is not an easy phenomenon to define the child abuse because childhood behaviour varies in harmony of cultural, family and social tolerance (example in the India) but we must  see that a child is just a child that is going to grow and have his own decision when he/she is older.The solution will be a major parent's control or teacher 's control, if they see anything wrong about the behavior's child, but this is too difficult and sometimes not possible because we don't know which,when where o who could be the cause of the abuse .as regards drugs, there are funny ones and we can find better  friends and sex , we also see for example if much better doing sex without worrying anything, so we have all together we could spend the weekend in a better funnier way. But we  must be aware of it ,we try to show people that this is not real and when it finishes, there is nothing that will be possible solution.
