  

 In these  days  education is an important issue very common in Spanish society, although there are  some people who talk about it without having been educated properly . In Spain compulsory education is from 3 until 16 years old. The government seems to be deeply implicated in this theme. Thus,  there are people who think we have an excellent education but others  who think that it is a normal one and, at last, those who think is too vague or bad. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning the Spanish education sytem.


  There are a group of people who are convinced that we have an excellent education and it is as good as the foreigners'. First, it seems reasonable to argue that it contributes      to get a good behaviour for the boys and girls in the society.Second, there are many ways to get  good education after the school, university or with professional education. Next,  there are several economic grants for those who want to study and cannot afford it. Another possible argument is that the system is  a  really good way to find a job after  studying and it is considered that is not necessary any kind of reform of the syllabus. 
The system is forming them in a correct way. Nevertheless, it depends on every individual according to several facts like where they live, the economy, etc. It is possible to get a good education if they have further preparation at university but not only. A current argument in Spain, which is not very convincing, against the bad moods is that people have no excuse  because there are several ways to get that education ('formación profesional', private academies, own degrees of the university ...) and the economic grants are  not usually for everybody. Besides, there are students who have problems with this kind of syllabus, such as retarded students who need a special attention.


On  the other hand, some people think that the Spanish education is regular in many ways. Fist, they consider that the syllabus in Spain is correct for the people who have enough money and involves a lot of invested money. Furthermore, those consider that having exams to check that they are learning is not the most effective way to show it. To begin with this point, the government has periodically been  trying to do a better system and if it often needs to be mended, then it is reasonable to argue that it has several failed points.
In this way they try to show  that it is not very good because it is clear that not every student  has the same  level , the further education is too expensive for some people who do not have any economic resources, the system needs any reform because it is not very complete. It is possible to consider this argument as a persuasive one but the reform is necessary because the time changes and now it is not as some years ago but in addition to have a good education, a lot of money is not necessary.


  The last but not less important opinion is from  people who think  that good education was lost  time ago. First, they argue that  children will grow up considerering that the syllabus is perfect and learning by heart is the best way to pass exams. It is also  possible that some people see this point as the most normal thing in  education. Next, it has been suggested that it is an incomplete system where there is almost theory without any practice at all. To begin  all the system should depend on a final exam . In aditition some of them suggest that  the Spanish education needs to be strongly reformed to keep up with  the same level as the rest of the world( ever more strict  than the Bolonia  reform ) and consider that the last ones are not the best because it forgets  the people depending on the government. A recent study indicates that nowadays teenagers are more ready that in the past and have a better education more  specific and it argues that at the moment the exam is the only solution to verify  they are progressing. Today exams are the only way to verify that they are learning and necessary to see if some of them need special education or support. In all the reform the government is constant to improve the system.
  
In conclusion,  there are different arguments concerning the Spanish education. The argument in favour is the fact that our education is one of the best and contributes positively in the youth. Other argument  assures that it is right for some sectors as university students and people with money but not with people who  choose others to study. Finally, the last opinion  is that our education is one of the worst and less complete and  it needs a strong reform.




