Nowadays living in Madrid can become in a nightmare that it's affecting the most of its population. Cars, buses, motorcicles are some of these elements that make to Madrid in a city of perpetual traffic jams. Everyday is more difficult to drive and arrive on time in rush hours. I personally think there are several factors could help us to decrease this kind of loss.

Today, big companies are moving on Madrid suburbs due to price increase in city centre. The most of the people spend many hours in the trajectory from their home to work and vice versa. If to all of this we add that there is much more people in Madrid than a few years ago, it will be place to endless daily rows of vehicles. Besides I believe highways are not prepared to hold it up and their infrastructure is very poor, they have a mediocre asphalt and fulled of potholes. These kind of problems cause accidents and accidents cause more traffic jams.

Not only the previous elements affect to traffic, from my point of view, public and unneccesary works are also essential for this problem. Everyday the main highways in Madrid are being closing because of works and this invites that all of the cars usually use this roads have to choose other alternatives. So the effect is that rush hours rise in a considerably way. Perhaps Politicians should be worried a bit more about repairing the roads instead make more constructions.

Some people think that the solution is in public transport but I'm not really sure about this. Underground could be a good alternative, however you can suffer all kind of delays such a full carriage, so it's impossible to go inside to it, if it's raining the tunnels can flood, etc. In buses you have the same problems with traffic and you can spend in the bus stop too much time, with rain, hot and cold days. Honestly I think public transport in Madrid have bad service and bad connection between different points of the city. For example, a person who has the job in Alcobendas and lives in the centre of Madrid spend two hours in this itinerary with public transport, of course if there is no sudden problems.

In my opinion, there are different things to resolve this problem. First of all it could be a good idea if underground and buses can be increased with more effectives and better connections, therefore people use less their own vehicles. Repairing the highways with good materials and in the best way will make that people don't spend so much time driving.

To conclude, traffic jams give a harmful aspect to Madrid. We have developed a lot of elements to become the city in a better place to live but we don't realize that the time we spend in cars or public transport is causing in people diseases like stress, anxiety and agresive characters. While politicians don't have seriously measures we will suffer traffic jams for ages.

