In our present society the car is a very useful machine that almost everybody have. That's because cities has become bigger in the last centuries and if you want to move quickly throughout a city like Madrid you have to use a vehicle and the most comfortable vehicle is a car. Traffic problems began when everyone use the car at the same time, i.e. in morning to go to job, in the evening to go back to home...In this essay I'll try to suggest solutions to reduce the traffic problem in Madrid
	I think that one possible solution is to share the car, with a job partner, a fellow, a member of our family or just a neighbour. If you look carefully to the cars in traffic jams you'll see that large number of vehicles with 5 seats at least are occupied by only one person maybe two. If I go to the faculty in my personal car I'm going alone or I can make a "tour" and call some fellows and go together. Someone may say that no one have the same schedule and people prefers go relaxed without pressure in his car than thinking that he must have go to the house of a fellow quickly because that fellow starts work at a certain hour earlier than the owner of the car. But if we share a car we can try to make the schedules compatible and also we're not going work alone, we have someone to talk if we want, someone to share the oil, we can make new friends or take care for our old friendships.
	In my opinion there's a very clear solution to the traffic problem. If we don't use the car we don't take part of the traffic jams and the best way to go to job o class without our car it's by using the public transport. In Madrid we have one of the best subways of the world that connects all the city and furthermore that subway have links to the train and bus stations, so we can go everywhere without using a private vehicle. The only problem with the public transport it's the schedule, it's possible that when we need a bus or a train there's no bus or train at this hour so we have to wait and if we want not arrive late at work or whatever, we have to get out of house with time to fight against this trouble. And even these transports are full and we have to go in a subway in which we cannot breath. But in my personal opinion we have 3 possibilities bus, train and subway and if one is full we can try go to another, and also we have to think what to chose, traffic jam or some kind of discomfort.
	Another possible solution it's to work at home, people don't need to use the car or public transport to move out, so in the critical hours of the morning and the evening we have less cars in the roads. The problem is that only can be done in some jobs, and the companies need get involved, it seems to me that by supporting this kind of work people can take care of their children, of the house and work without problem and moreover the traffic will be reduce.
	As a conclusion I suggested some solutions in the essay that can be applied but it's too difficult that everybody take part of the solution, there's people using public transport, sharing cars and some companies let workers work at home, but I personally believe that this is a minimal percentage of population of Madrid, and this city is growing everyday so it's to difficult to stop magically the traffic problems to one day for another.   
