
In the present society its already habitual that we can see two boys or two girls maintaining feeling or even sexual relations. Homosexual people have recently begun to have freedom. Now they can to express at the same way that the others, but, although everybody are equal and they must have the same civil rights, gay people are considered by too much people like differents, odds and at worst villains or perverts. One of the civil rights which should be for everyone and which recently we bear in mind and is worriying our society its the right of marriage between gays. In this essay I intend to consider some of the reasons for which homosexual people could be allowed or banned to get marry like any heterosexual, and by extension if the could or should adopt children.

Firstly I consider that its necessary to clarify that I think homosexual people are normal people, that they have feelings, that they don't suffer unbalanced mental conditions, that they are not perverts not even if they are not against heterosexual people. On the basis of they are normal people with their lifes, works, families and feelings it's easy to think that they should have the same civil rights, but it is not like this.

Gay people couldn't got marry. The main reason for this prohibition was that the couple was two persons of the same sex and the marriage was yield between a man and a woman. The most easy thing to do was be to add at the definition of marriage that gay people can to get marry too but the church banned it.

The church understand marriage like an union of two persons of different sex who are faithful about their beliefs, but the church only carry out in the majority of the cases one part of this definition, concerning at the sex, because many people who get marry do it by the church for to get dressed of white and only to have a nice day but not by faith. If there are people who can get marry without faith it not seems difficult to marry two persons of the same sex.

In relation to the children adopt we must bear in mind that now there is third person that don't be fully aware of still of the world for the short of his/her age, and who needs an education. This point is quite problematic in relation to the opinions which are being given about this. Homosexual like heterosexual people could adopt children, but many people think that it will be not really good because there would not one person who takes the role of father and one of mother; and because when child is growing will be tend to be homosexual because for he/she it will be normal.

When the people say that the roles will not be clear it could be that they forgotten that there are a lot of children who wasn't grown with their parents, that there are a lot of single mothers, a lot of widows - men and women - and orphans. A child doesn't need a person who take a role, he/she needs love, a good education and someone who teach him/her to be a good person in the future. Furthermore, many heterosexual couples get divorced and children have had to distribute their time to give this at their parents without have totaly neither.

And when people say that the child can have in the future a tendency to be homosexual the answer is that a homosexual borned homosexual, its untrue that one can convert himself eventually in a homosexual or heterosexual person.

To sum up, I have argued about the gay marriage and child adoption by homosexual people, explaining that gay people are normal persons who have the same civil rights; that the definition of marriage shouldn't be inmovable, that the church not always operate which it say and that with or without homosexual parents what a child needs it's a family and a good childhood.

I believe that if the people who criticize gay people in these and more aspects would be in their situation they was the firsts to claim their civil rights for a worthy and fair life.

