
As everybody knows cannabis is an ilegal drug at least in Spain. By definition we can say that is a plant knows by its pharmacological properties and used as a medicine since thousand of years. However, nowadays is considered a drug and although several investigations suggest that tobacco is worst for human healthy than this we can buy tobacco at tobacconist's shop.

We could talk about who smokes cannabis, when they smoke, were they do that and if it is own consume; also we can ask ourselves what are the main reasons that can conduce us to take or don't take drugs or like in this case why marijuana should be legalized or not.

The most used arguments by people who defends the banned of cannabis attacks its addictive potential and the fear of that the use derives into abuse. Also they bases their arguments in the perjudicial affects to health - and specially to mental health - of regular consumption of cannabis, and in the possibility of the existence of an "amotivacional" syndrome" associated with the use of that substance. Finaly, the "scaling theory" which defends that cannabis is a "bridge drug" towards consumption to others addictives substances much more toxis, have been the argument which have shed more opinions about the banned.

The WHO (world Health Organization) consider that cannabis affects negatively in mental health because there is evidence that it can produces a dependence syndromes similar to other drugs, induce to own psychosis, causes an "amotivational syndrome" and speeds up the beginning and exacerbate the course of schizophrenia. Nevertheless, this arguments, have been [-] repeteadly by scientists and investigatores since more than a century.


About the addictive capacity of cannabis it must to explain that THC, its principal active element, is consider right now non addictive substance, because of its pharmacological nature. The consumption of a lots of cannabis, far to increase the effect, produces an insensitivity almost total. This explains that the cannabis smoker don't feel withdrawal symptoms like with alcohol or heroin or stimulants like amphetamine or caffeine. Notwithstanding, there are who affirm the opposite. Quiroga, for example, quotes various recent studies. One of them reveal that people who had consumed THC daily during at least 70 months, shows a characteristical withdrawal symptoms.

Even though the symptoms which he describes - Quiroga - neither seem specially serious, bearing in mind that it is refer to people who have been consuming daily during almost six years and nor specially difficult to overcome. In any case the investigator remains that the addictive capacity of cannabis is less than toacco or alcohol have, which are drugs not submits to no ban.

An example of cannabis is not an important addictive or toxic substance, it have been demonstrate in the way that consumers take this. It satisfy quickly, causing a surfait or autiavid which force to space the doses.

It is considered that there are a relation betwen the consumption of cannabis and the appearance of mental illness like schizophrenia or different kinds of psychosis. It is not prove reliably, however, the chance of the relation. To a general conclusion, some authors affirms that the possibility that the consumption will be the direct causer of the illnes tends to confirm.

A vagely definition of "amotivacional syndrom" it is generally a state of passivity and indifferent, but we don't know clearly if it really exist.

Some would argue the ideas based on the "scaling theory" believing that consumption of cannabis will open the doors of other drugs more pernicious. One of the better considered informs about this, suggest that the cannabis consumers don't feel attraction by heroine or another opiates. There are no proofs that smoke cannabis drive to the consumption of another drugs more or less pernicious although everyone are dangerous.

Research suggests that is the ban which bring young people to take drugs. The named ilegal character of any substance is which make it attractive. Nonetheless it is apparently true that people can obtains cannabis they can obtain too another kinds of drugs.

In some countries is should be able the therapeutic use of cannabis and the "cannabinoides" doesn't be legalized for this use. People who are agree with this therapeutical use would argue that it is so good for differents illness, for example for the anorexia and others.

It's possible that authorities don't permit cannabis consumption because it will be an increasing of the actual consumption. There is not any case seemed to that in Holand, for example where it is legalized. Anyway we must remain that the tobacco and the alcohol are legal drugs... it seems ilogical.

