Spain is a developed European country where everybody has the right to live with dignity, because this is written in the Constitution. These rights overcast bare necessities such as accommodation, health, education... The education system in Spain is organised in different levels which depend on the age of the student and the specific subject, field of interest, or necessities. Hence, kids are usually given the following education scheme: nursery school, primary school, secondary school, and vocational training or high school. Adults can assist to the university or follow the distance learning, unless those not having a high school degree who must reach first the required educational level by succeeding the adult education scheme. There is also a complementary education system for subjects such as languages, music, and arts.

	Some people would argue that the Spanish education system is very good because everybody is given an opportunity to study, regardless the age of the person. In addition, all children up to 16 years old must go to school and are not allowed to work. That is way everybody has a fair general culture. Other possible argument is that the education up to 16 years old is free, and, after that, if somebody studies in the public system, the price of courses is rather cheap, and if students have not enough money, they can get a scholarship. Another point in favour is that this system offers a lot of careers and degrees with different duration. One of the important points may be that the adults who have a job can study without timetable or with a special timetable according to their necessities.

	On the other hand, there is a lot of people who is against this educational system. One of the main arguments against is that there are too many changes in the system. Recently, there have been three different lows concerning children up to 18 years old. Some of these changes deal with subjects such as Religion, Philosophy or Latin. In addition, children have lower knowledge levels because they may pass to the next level if their parents agree even when they have failed a lot of subjects. The procedure to evaluate children is more subjective than before, because children can pass their exam although they do not really know anything if the teacher believe that they have studied but they are not very clever. Finally, some people think that in this system children may learn a lot of theory, but there are not many practical lessons, for example in languages.

	It is reasonable to think that the education system has good and wrong points, because it is a complex system. But, in general, it is a good concept with a lot of points very bad. The fact that the system is free is very positive because everybody should have the opportunity to became whoever he wants, and if a person makes a wrong choice, he can easily change his life with helps such as distance learning or convenient timetable. Scholarships are very important for a lot of people, but there are many situations that they are given to people who do not need it. Regarding the laws, some may be in favour and others against in case of the change of subjects depending on theirs principles, for example on whether they believe or not in God. In case of the evaluation system, most people think that teachers should evaluate the exam, the homework, and the effort realised, but giving more weight to the knowledge shown both in the theoretical and practical exams. 

	To conclude, the education system is very complex. Some people share the opinion that it is good enough in general, but some others think it has lots of mistakes, depending on the politic and religion ideas of each person, although the most part of the people believe that their children know less, because the system is not very hard.

