Spain is a developed country where more than 40 million people live. Most of the people who live in this kind of country have overcastted bare necessities such as food, water, and medicine. In spite of this, many people seem to feel worried because they would like to live better and reach a higher level of comfort. These problems could be divided into three kind of groups: financial difficulties, security problems, and social problems.

It seems to me that the most important among them is the financial difficulties, because nowadays it is very difficult to form a family or to keep it up. The main issues that cause this problem in Spain are; first, to find a job, because finding a good job is impossible, so most of them do not provide enough money to buy or hire a house. Second, to find accommodation, because it is very expensive, specially in big cities such as Madrid, Barcelona or Seville. That is why young people need the help of their parents to get a loan from the bank; but if their parents have many sons, it is very complicated to get that help. Then, if a young family gets a house, it has to spend most of its income to pay it, so it may not have many children. This is the main reason why the society is getting older. In order to solve this problem, the government should control the price of houses, because it is a bare necessity. In fact, house taxes should be lower for young people or people who have not gotten much money. Also, young people should earn more money, because most of them have onerous contracts for several years while doing the same work as compared to their colleagues.

With regard to security, in particular to terrorism, every enquiry in Spain shows that it is the second on the list of problems that worry the citizens the most, after the one mentioned above. This is a very old problem that lacks of an easy solution, mainly because the Basques are divided in two groups, although the most part of the Spanish society seems to join together whenever a terrorist attack takes place. In addition, domestic mistreating is becoming a big issue to be concern about. Nowadays violence increase might be caused by television and videogames. Another topic related to this point is road safety. Hundreds people die on traffic accidents every year. I guess that is why the twelve points licence has been implanted. Since then, the number of dead has significantly decreased.

Finally, the third kind of problem, social problems such as poverty, mistreating, xenophobia, etc., might be solved by means of education. The most important value in a modern society is children education, because children will hold the moral, economical, and social power of the future. They will lead the country, so children should be taught to be shared and liable. A shared society shall try to help underdeveloped societies who suffer of starvation, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Another problem that might be solved with children education is racism: the fact of having children of different races into the same class may be key to reach a mutual understanding, so that Spanish children may not consider other races as a menace, whereas foreign children may learn and follow the customs of the country they are living in. Also, most of the items highlighted in the paragraph above may be solved by means of a proper children education, such as terrorism and road safety.

In conclusion, even though bare necessities are overcastted in our society, there are a lot of problems. Most of them could be solved by means of government help and careful education.
