
In the last years the threat of the terrorism has shaken the world outlook. People saw the news footage of the events on September 11, 2001 of the planes turned missiles that showed the destruction of the World Trade Center towers and damage of the Pentagon. What is probably the worst terrorist attack on the United States, even in the world, is totally undoubted; over 6000 were killed. The ghastly terrorist attacks led to a mixture of political, social and economic reaction around the world. Here began the war against the terrorism.This essay discusses the different perspectives about if the current world is a safer place as result of this war.

To begin with, the United States are certainly the country with more physical safety to defend itself against the terrorism.It's precisely this country who, together with his allies, occupies constant the front pages of the newspapers for the measurements adopted against these attacks. Bush's position and theirs it is clear: the struggle against the terrorism is a war indeed. The enemies are the terrorist organizations and also the States that promote them so, for the United States and his allies, they must take the initiative and throw an offensive in all the fields: intelligence, safety, democratization, promotion of the freedom of market. Hereby, they have initiated important campaigns in Afghanistan or Iraq on having thought that these countries could suppose a threat. Accoding to them this is the one way to guaratee the safety. The difficulty is that some allies begin to differ due to Bush's vehemence.

Between this position and the opposite one there are some countries that don't incline totally on any of the two. Poland and Italy have given a more discreet profile to its position. The same thing happens in Norway, Sweden or even, important sectors in USA where democratic leader John Kerry consider necessary the war against terrorism but ussing other "weapons". According to Kerry, Bush is a incompetent one who has not wanted to rationalize the means used in the search of the safety. This people think that, this way of prevention, is not going to become the world in a safer place.For them, nowadays, the tension is blowind in the wind.

On the other hand, there are a lot of countries that  think of opposite way to Bush and his allies. Some European countries headed by Germany and France, objected to the new concept of " preventive war " and pushed back to take part in the assault to Iraq. According to Javier Solana, high representative of Exterior Politics and of Common Security of the European Union, the preventive war must be avoided. For the opposite ones to the war all the decisions will have to think in the Council of Security of the UNO after having listened to the inspectors and agree with the taken resolutions. In addition, to Schoeder, the preventive war supposes a serious assault against the human rights since it is impossible that the violence solves a problem as terrible as the terrorism. However, there are discrepancies in the position of the European Union. Other European countries headed by Italy, Spain and Poland, endorsed the initiative of the United States and sent military workforce.

To conclude, the different points of view about this war and about if the current world is a safer place reflect the diversity of opinions and the difficulty that the countries have to take decisions about a topic as complex as  is the terrorism.
In the analysis of the information it s reflected the interest of all the parts to reach a high level of safety level, however, none of them seems to be satisfied by the world situation due to the fact that the measures adopted as some and others seem not to inspire a safety situation in the world.




2
Nayra Benito Ferreras

