These days there are a lot of problems in our society. However, there're three issues that are very important because they are affecting people personally. In my view, these problems are: violence among young children, immigration and unemployment. As a consequence of the fact that problems are very different, they're going to be dealt with in a separate way. First, I'm going to analyze the violence. For instance, nowadays, Spanish children are very disrespectful with their teachers. Another point is the increasing amount of illegal immigration. Maybe, the worst situation in our country is in Canary Islands where everyday received hundreds of immigrants. The third question, but not less important, is the unemployment. Nowadays, in Spain, there're 2 millions of unemployed people so politicians have set out to improve this quantity. In this essay, I'm going to focus in these three issues to know better their features.
First, I'm going to deal the young violence. Bullying has become a very serious topic today. It's been in the newspapers, t.v... Over 6 million boys and 4 million girls are involved in fights every year on school. The problem has been around for as long as people have been around. The question is the detection. Mental and physical signs for parents to look for to find out if their child is being bullied include: Cuts, bruises, torn clothing, stomach pains before "it's time to go to school", poor grades, not many friends, always loses money, fear, nervousness, and relates better to adults and teachers than children. These signs  also helps to understand the different types of abuse. This can vary from physical to verbal (crushing your self-esteem). We can't forget that  children between the ages of 5-11 begin using verbal abuse, and are capable of some physical abuse such as first fighting and kicking although once a child reaches the age of 12, psychological changes take place and the bullying becomes more violent(this might include the use of weapons and sexual abuse). However, it's usually the parents of bullies are either extremely tolerant and permissive, and allow them to get away with everything, or physically aggressive and abusive. In spite of this, the parents are not always the cause. The reasons about this behaviour might include violence on tv and the influence of "bully" friends.  Bullies need to be in control of situations, and enjoy inflicting injury on others. Usually they 're bigger and stronger than other children their own age,so bullies believe that their anger behavior is justified. I think the bully might lash out at people because they're angry about something. Maybe someone in his (her) life is bullying him (her). He could be hurting from abuse he received in the past, or maybe he (she) grew up observing those around him (her) so children who use violence to resolve conflicts, grow up to be adults who use violence to resolve conflicts. What can parents do to prevent their children from getting bullied? They have to tell your children to play with friends, not alone, and to avoid alleys and empty buildings, especially after dark. Maintain an open communication with your child while teaching him/her to be strong and kind. However, this is not so easy because actually, a lot of parents spend all day outside home and some of them think the school has to educate their children. This's a wrong idea. First school is the family so our children will be a reflex of what they have seen around it. I think the current education system is an absolute failure. Children have to study until 16 years so it's very difficult to control a teenager that he (she) doesn't want to be at school. Unfortunately physical abuse, sexual harassment and robbery have driven many victims to substance abuse or suicide. 
Secondly, I'm going to our second issue. Persistently high levels of unemployment have become a common trend throughout most of the European Union and contrast drastically with the relatively low unemployment levels in other developed nations, and in particular those of the United States and Japan. However, despite the fact that high unemployment is a common problem throughout the European Union, there are also significant differences in the unemployment rates of each of its members. In fact, in March 2004, unemployment rates among the members of the European Union vary from a low 4.1% in Luxembourg to a high 11.1% in Spain. High unemployment is currently a problem shared by all the nations of the European Union. This is problematic because when workers are unemployed, there is an underutilization of resources so the total production of goods and services is less than what it could potentially be. Furthermore, if people cannot find jobs in their country or if the pay is lower than in other countries, they may be tempted to relocate to another country where there is a higher demand for labor and wages are higher. This can potentially be disastrous for the future of a nation, particularly if other nations are attracting its top talent. In addition, it is particularly problematic for a society when the unemployment rate for young adults is very high because if young people are consistently unemployed, they may never learn marketable skills or the ones they have obtained through their education may become obsolete before they are employed. Taking into account all of the negative effects that high unemployment can have on the economy of a nation, it is not surprising that unemployment is currently considered one of the most significant national problems in Spain. Although it is often assumed that institutional factors are the main reason for the high levels of unemployment in our country, this does not seem to be the case. The lack of labor mobility, both geographically and in moving between unemployment to employment, have demonstrated to be more significant in contributing to the unemployment problem. Therefore, programs should be instituted to promote immigration to regions with low unemployment. However, due to institutional and cultural factors it would be very hard, and impossible in the short run, to eliminate the disparity in unemployment between different regions simply by increasing the mobility of labor. In my opinion to combat this, it's necessary to increase the number and appeal of technical schools and improving those institutions that match the unemployed with jobs although I think this is one of the most difficult issue due to the fact that there're large factors that intervene in it.

The third problem is immigration. Hundreds of immigrants arrive on the coast of the Canary Islands in rafts. Normally the story shares an account of how many people left Africa on said rafts, how many people actually made it to Spanish soil (the Canary Islands,how the immigrants were treated for dehydration and how babies were taken by the Red Cross for care). The frequency by which these stories appear in the newspaper leads me to believe that Spain has an immigration issue. We may not hear about it too much, I think, it's something that is seething below the surface throughout Europe because there are human traffickers also make similar deals available to illegal African immigrants seeking a better life in the European Union. For €700 a smuggler will take you as far as Spain's Canary Islands. Unfortunately, many immigrants never arrive at their destination after the dangerous trip. In Spain, The Red Cross estimate there have been as many as 3,000 deaths since 2.004. As consequence of this situation a lot of people in Spain is reluctant to foreign people. Here, people think that they're going to steaI our employment, they bring illness, they are unciviliced... In spite of these reasons I think there are other things like racism. In my view, we have to remenber our own history. Do people remember when Spanish went to Germany or Argentina? In my opinion, nobody leave a family without a inevitable reason. However, I have to recognize sometimes it's difficult to defend determinate things... They can't steal, they have to respect our habits, hours... For me, there is no doubt that this situation needs colaboration from both parts.

To conclude, we have seen that these 3 problems require guidance, colaboration and understanding. In addition, I think we have to recover some principles because a lot of times we become monsters. Fortunately, nowadays, a very important part of the world live with excellent conditions, however we can't forget that 6000 million of people have nothing.

