
Stress- related illnesses are particularly common nowadays. In many companies it is not unusual for two or three workers each week to take time off work because they are suffering from the effects of overwork and stress. However it is sometimes false because many people lie about these companies would like to help to deal with the problem and has generously offered to allocate a sum of money for this purpose. Besides there are some recommendations as to how the situation might be improve. 

It is essential for employees to spend some time each day relaxing and concentrating on something other than work. We need to ensure that there is a place where they can do this, so I would suggest that we convert one of the office into a special "relaxation room" and encourage stall to spend half and hour there every day. Obviously, the furnishing and lighting of this room would be different. People should listen to music to relax them selves.

It would also be beneficial for there to be a total ban on smoking, drinking, reading and talking in this area.

It would be a good idea to employ a therapist or psychologist to look after employees.

Finally, employees should be encouraged to attend a local gym two or three times a week .Regular exercise is know to reduce levels of stress and anxiety, and also of course promotes general fitness and health. Going to gym may help to those people who can not follow the relaxions techniques.

The measures for combating stress suggested here would entail some financial outlay. However, the long-term beneficits of implementing some or all of these measures would be quite considerable-both to individual members of stall and the company as a whole.

Economic "globalization" is a historical process, the result of human innovation and technological progress. It refers to the increasing integration of economies around the world, particularly through trade and financial flows. The term sometimes also refers to the movement of people (labour) and knowledge (technology) across international borders. There are also broader cultural, political and environmental dimensions of globalization that are not covered here.

At it is the most basic, there is nothing mysterious about globalization .The term has come into common usage since the 1980s, reflecting technological advances that have made it easier and quicker to complete international transactions-both trade and financial flows. It refers to an extension beyond national borders of the same market forces that have operated for centuries at all levels of human economic activity-village, markets, urban industries or financial centers.
Markets promote efficiency through competition and the division of labour-the specialization that allows people and economies to focus on what they do best. Global markets offer greater opportunity for people to tap into more and larger markets around the world. It means that they can have access to more capital flows, technology, cheaper imports, and larger export markets. But markets do not necessarily ensure that the benefits of increased efficiency are shared by all. Countries must be prepared to embrace the policies needed, and in the case of the poorest countries may need the support of the international community as they do so.

The term "globalization" has acquired considerable emotive force. Some view it as a process that is beneficial—a key to future world economic development—and also inevitable and irreversible. Others regard it with hostility, even fear, believing that it increases inequality withing and between nations, threatens employment and living standards and thwarts social progress. This brief offers an overview of some aspects of globalization and aims to identify ways in which countries can tap the gains of this  process, while remaining realistic about it is potential and it is risks.

Globalization offers extensive opportunities for truly worldwide development but it is not progressing evenly. Some countries are becoming integrated into the global economy more quickly than others. Countries that have been able to integrate are seeing faster growth and reduced poverty. Outward-oriented policies brought dynamism and greater prosperity to much of East Asia, transforming it from one of the poorest areas of the world 40 years ago. And as living standards rose, it became possible to make progress on democracy and economic issues such as the envimorent and work standards.

By contrast, in the 1970s and 1980s when many countries in Latin America and Africa pursued inward-oriented policies, their economies stagnated or declined, poverty increased a high inflation became the norm. In many cases, especially Africa, adverse external developments made the problems worse. As these regions changed their policies, their incomes have begun to rise. An important transformation is underway. Encouraging this trend, not reversing it, is the best course for promoting growth, development and poverty reduction.

The crises in the emerging markets in the 1990s have made it quite evident that the opportunities of globalization do not come without risks—risks arising from volatile capital movements and the risks of social, economic and environmental degradation created by poverty. This is not a reason to reverse direction, but for all concerned— in developing countries, in the advanced countries, and of course inventors—to embrace policy changes to build strong economies and stronger world financial system that will produce more rapid growth an ensure that poverty is reduced.

How can the developing countries, especially the poorest, be helped to catch up? Does a globalization exacerbate inequality or can it help to reduce poverty? And are countries that integrate with the global economy inevitably vulnerable to instability? These are some of the questions covered in the following years.

Juvenile crime is on increase .At present very little is done to prevent young offenders from reoffending and eventually being sent to prison. The proposals outline below would go some way to improving this situation.

We feel that a good way of dealing with young offenders is to show them the consequences of their crimes and the way in which they will be punished if they continue to break the law. We suggest that teenagers quality of crimes of violence should see the consequences of their actions by visiting those they have hurt and the families of their victims.

We feel that it would be particularly beneficial to arrange for prison officers to tell young offenders about the awful conditions which prevail inside prisons. the prison officers talk could be accolupanied by a video, and it might even be a good idea for these young people to meet people who have been in prison, whose lives have been ruined by their time a prison.

Finally, the progress to each young offender would be checked by social workers.

Juvenile crime needs to be dealth with quickly and offensively. The measures suggested here would achieve this by helping young offenders to understand the destructiveness of crime, and by showing them the future which awaits them if they continue to break the law. Police warnings are not enough; unless young offenders are given guidance, crime levels will continue to rise.





