


      Over the course of the last two decades, Madrid's population has increased considerably. There are 3.5 million people living and working in the capital of Spain, plus 1.5 that come to work in the city everyday. As a result, traffic in the city has become a living hell for millions of Madrilians that spend unnecessary hours in their cars everyday. In this essay, I would try to provide some solutions that in my opinion could help ease the traffic problems that citizens face day after day.
      
      First of all, I believe that the first and main solution would be to focus on improving public transportation. A recent study of the region's mobility shows that Madrilians would rather use their cars than public transport. Anyone that has to cross Atocha Station during rush hour could understand why. It seems to me that in general, public transportation in our city is insufficient, slow and expensive. I believe that more trains and buses are particularly needed during rush hours. In the same way, prices and comfort should be reconsidered. Politicians could argue that Madrid has very extensive bus, subway and commuter services that reach every corner of the city and outskirts. And even thought I personally agree with this fact I strongly believe that the quality, quantity and prices could be improved.  This, I think would definitely attract more people to public transportation and reduce the number of cars in the city. 

      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Furthermore, another possible solution that I would recommend is telematic work. Nowadays, more and more employees work using a computer as their major tool. Working at home most days and having to go to the office maybe just once a week would decrease the amount of people driving in the city, thus improving traffic conditions. Having a staff meeting lying on the coach, using your laptop's webcam, does not sound so futuristic anymore. However, it might be argue that the amount of companies that could provide this kind of service for their employees is very low. Personally speaking, I believe this will require a whole improvement plan on the part of the Ministry of Science and Technology. The plan could help companies and public institutions renewing their structures and networks, so part of their employees could work from home at least on partly basis, avoiding unnecessary trips to their working location.
      

      In my view, one very strong possible solution that also politicians seem to be considering these days is that of the so-called dissuasive parking lots.  This sort of parking would be constructed in the outskirts of the city, so people coming from the suburbia areas would combine private and public transportation in order to get to work. I strongly believe dissuasive parking lots would avoid a great amount of unnecessary traffic in the inner city. Some people might think that these would mean extra cost for their pockets, since they would have to purchase a monthly pass for public transportation plus the additional cost of gas and the price of the parking lots. Nevertheless, I believe this could be easily solve by allowing the use of the dissuasive parking lots with the public transportation monthly pass, thus no extra cost would be added and citizens will safe time and money.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Another idea that I believe would be effective to solve Madrid's traffic problems would be to charge a fee to those vehicles entering the most overcrowded areas of the city such as Sol or Castellana. In 2003 London introduced the congestion charging fee, which consist of charging divers when entering congested areas of the city. This measure has been applied in other capitals such as Oslo or Singapore reducing considerably the amount of cars entering the city.  Yet, many people could criticize this idea of paying to use our roads since they are "ours" because we pay for them with "our" taxes. On the other hand, I strongly believe that the city, its people, its parks, buildings, and so on, are also ours and it is our duty to preserve them from deterioration caused by pollution and acoustic contamination produce by the excess of cars. Therefore, restricting the access to certain parts of the city by charging a fee not only I think would partially solve the problem with traffic but also would improve our environment, thus our health. 
      
      Last but not least, I would consider promoting biking as a healthy and environmental friendly transportation. In European capitals such as Copenhagen or Amsterdam it is very common to see thousands of bikers going to work every morning. I personally think that Spanish authorities could create bike paths, and bicycle parking areas around the city so people could use bikes not only for leisure and sports purposes but as a daily mean of transport. This, I believe would be very beneficial, reducing the city's congestion, contamination and improving Madrilian's health.  Many people could argue that biking in Madrid's traffic nowadays, would mean taking your life in your hands. It is true that drivers have little or no respect for bikers and that the fumes might be unbearable.. However, I think this is due to the fact that biking in Spain has always been considered a leisure activity. It would probably take time and a good promoting campaign on the part of the government to convince people and change their attitude towards biking as a daily mean of transport.
      
      
      
      
      
      In conclusion, in this essay I have focused on providing possible solutions to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid. Firstly, I have concentrated on the importance of improving public transportation. Then, I have mentioned the significance of encouraging telematic work by means of campaigns and investments. Furthermore, I have suggested the construction of dissuasive parking lots as well as the possibility of establishing a charging fee for vehicles entering certain parts of the city. Finally, I have also discussed the option of encouraging biking as a mean of transport by creating bicycle paths and parking lots.  Having considered all these possible solutions, I believe that unless authorities get their hands on this problem fast, it would be very difficult to solve. As stated in this essay, solutions require strong political, economical and social changes that would take time, money and effort on the part of everyone. Madrid's population keeps growing fast and it seems to me that according to the way our city and our working lives are organised the problem requires strong changes in short time. My question is if authorities and Madrid citizens are ready for them. Sadly I believe the answer is no.
