





	Since the dreadful event of September 11th 2001 in the United States, part of the International Community started a crusade against terrorism. The USA bombed Afghanistan and later on started a war in Iraq. Some other countries changed laws and started new and stricter measures to fight terrorism. Nowadays, five years after, the question that many people seem to be asking is if more violence has brought us peace and a safer world. In this essay, I will analyse different opinions regarding war against terrorism and its effectiveness in making the world a safer place. 


		President of the United state of America, George W. Bush  and his administration started  war against terrorism as a fight to preserve "the non-negotiable demands of human dignity, the rule of law, limits on the power of the state and equal justice,". However, for many people justice cannot exist without a respect for human rights.  Many nations and strong groups of people seem to be against USA politics. It seemed that United States was taken revenge on the Muslim countries for the attack and was selling the idea to the international community as "a common crusade to fight international terrorism". 







	On the other hand, those in favor of the war against terrorism seem to feel that the world is now a safer place. They believe that in order to protect us from international terrorism those Muslim countries with totalitarian regimes should be freed first and lead to liberty and democracy. President Bush's government states that they have made substantial progress in degrading the al-Qaeda network, killing or capturing key lieutenants, eliminating safe havens, and disrupting existing lines of support. They think that the democracies established in those countries would honour and support basic human rights, including freedom of religion, conscience, speech, assembly, association, and press. They are believed to be the long-term antidote to fight terrorism and make the world a safer place.


	In May 2003, International Amnesty stated that the so-called war against terrorism was not making the world a safer place but more dangerous. They supported the argument with two important facts: war against terrorism is jeopardizing human rights and it is disregarding international laws. According to them, the war against terrorism is creating hard feelings and dividing people of different believes, races, ethnics and nationalities. It is separating and making us suspicious of each other. Therefore, planting the seeds for more fighting and disagreement among people. 


