There are many political matters that cause confusion and controversy nowadays. Education is among the most controversial of all, on account of its importance for the future. Nevertheless, despite the fact that many reforms have occurred during the last twenty-five years of democracy without a political consensus on the matter, some may argue that reforms are needed: many favour an extremely lay education system, while others tend to dissent from this view; this collision comes from the fact that some religious authorities argue that lay education gives the student no moral values. In this essay I am going to point out the different arguments and opinions of common use concerning the Spanish education system.

To begin with, some religious authorities stand firmly against whichever type or project of lay education they are presented with. Furthermore, they claim that any project of lay education goes against the most basic nature of mankind, which is that of needing a set of beliefs that may be able to guide their lives to a higher step in their personal evolution. However logical the latter statement may be, it seems that this perspective is directly derived from the traditional topic that man can't live without belonging to a religion, and therefore this viewpoint denies the personal freedom of deciding what to believe, taking into account that "religion" in Spain refers mainly to Catholicism because of the traditional predominance of this religion over others since the 1300s or the 1400s, and more so since the 1500s, in the Iberian peninsula.

On the other hand, some authorities that defend the project of lay education against all odds are of the opinion that the true basis of a fair education project is that of outlining the essential nature of education, that is to say, the maximum of independence from political and religious biases in order to leave the students as free an access to a wide range of beliefs as the educational system allows. However, this viewpoint ignores, to some extent, the historical evolution of metaphysics and religion as the most important part of our cultural set of beliefs, and it therefore doesn't focus on the positive aspects of acquiring a series of notions on religion and its history.

Some, nevertheless, may argue that religious education classes on Catholicism could be imparted from a rational, scientific point of view, providing the student with a reasonable amount of knowledge on the cultural and historical background of each epoch, and on the degree of development of the religious institutions and its influence throughout the centuries. But this opinion would probably give the learners a biased and partial view of the history of religions, on the basis that they would acquire a significant amount of knowledge of only one of the historically meaningful, important religions, that is, they would know a great deal of Catholicism and its background, but little else on other religions.

However, some defend the opinion that a better alternative would be to promote the creation of a global academic subject on the overall history, culture and development of religions and the alternative sets of beliefs that have appeared as partially or totally opposed to religious education, such as atheism or laicism, throughout the history of religions. Even though this subject would be difficult to create and systematize, it seems as good a preliminary solution to the open conflict on the relationship of equilibrium between religion and education as the current political and social situation of our country can offer in order to end up with the confusion that reigns on the ground.

To sum up, there are many viewpoints and opinions on the issues of religion and education, some of which I have referred to and analysed in the previous paragraphs, which seem to collide and contradict themselves in a subject that is not only controversial but also determining for the future of the Spanish educational system.

