
There are many problems that perturb most of the cities of our planet nowadays, including Madrid. Of these problems, the one that affects our everyday lives most directly is that of traffic and heavy congestions in the main roads. In Madrid, this problem can reach unimaginable heights, because, during the rush hours, hundreds of thousands of workers commute to their offices causing its main entrances to be collapsed for some 60 to 90 minutes. In this essay, I will propose a certain number of solutions that could possibly reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

Firstly, the speed and efficiency of the existing underground network could be improved in order to enable commuters to arrive to their workplaces in time, a measure that would allow them to avoid possible traffic jams. However, some may say that this solution would be very costly, and that it would not make Madrid a congestion-free city. Nevertheless, and although the solution may be expensive, the cost of the operation could easily be paid off by the higher income that would be registered, taking into account that more people would use the public underground network.

Furthermore, car access to the city could be legally restricted to the hours when more drivers head to the city, that is, to the rush hours; during the rest of the day, a prefixed number of cars would be allowed to enter the city. This solution would ensure a great reduction in the number of cars that enter the city everyday, and there would be fewer traffic problems. Some people may argue, however, that this measure would not only fail to solve the traffic problems, but that it would even augment its magnitude, as a consequence of having limited car access during the greater part of the day. In spite of this critique, the restriction could be limited to the nearest towns to Madrid, where public transport is conveniently available, whereas in other areas located farther away the restriction would be less strict.

In addition, car access to some of the city streets could be banned permanently so that only pedestrians could walk around them freely. As a consequence, fewer citizens would use the car in their everyday life, and even more citizens would make an intense use of public transport networks. On the other hand, this solution could be considered radical and unpopular because, as a consequence of there being less cars in the streets, gasoline consumption would drop to unsuspected levels. But, however unpopular this measure may turn out to be, it would not only cause a significant reduction of cars in the streets but it would also bring about a more intelligent use of public transport networks.

Finally, the regional government could put forth better urban development and organisation plans, paying more attention to the interests of citizens, and not those of the building enterprises. That way, our city would be shaped to suit the interests of its inhabitants. Against this statement, it could be said that these plans would be incredibly costly, and that their effect would be far less perceptible. But these plans, anyhow, would be just a little more expensive than those that are being currently carried out by the local administration, and I'm sure that their effect, though obviously not immediate, would be noteworthy in many roads and streets of Madrid.

To sum up, traffic problems in Madrid could be partially reduced by means of more intelligent policies related to urbanisation, development and public transport. In fact, if none of the aforementioned policies were applied in the near future, it would not be long before this city became a more than uncomfortable place to live.
