

Nowadays the Spanish education sistem is changing with the recently election of the PSOE political party at the  2004 general elections. This political party has created a new law the LOE. The posibility of taking out the Christianist religion of the school has developed numerous arguments against. In this essay I am going to consider this topic and the differents points of view that this law has produce in the present society. 

One of the most important arguments that La Asociación de Padres Católicos(Concapa), give to combact this law is that " most of spanish society is Catholic and this law is a discrimination to Catholics". Some people think that this opinion is reasonable because if the majority of the spanish society is Catholic, the spanish government should also consider this fact and do not avoid it. This asociation also thinks that the new law that includs other religions like muslim religion, and gives to this students the book of this subject is neither fair, because to Catholic students the government does not give nothing. They also demand a better treat. This association also defend the right that muslim's sons could study his religion in the school.

Other argument against this law is given by La Confederación Española de Centros de Enseñanza (CECE). They say that some concepts like bigamy, would crash with our rights and our constitutional freedoms. They say that is diferent to talk about who is Alá, and the relationships of muslim religion with other religions. She says that this is culture and not other thing. La Asociación Nacional de Profesores de Enseñanza (ANPE)says that is indispensable that the teachers that are going to teach those religions(jewish and muslim), must have the necesary qualifications. Some people might argue that this concepts could opend the minds of students, however other people could think that this information could create differents kind of minds that would not be incluye in parameters of  democracy. 

There are also groups which supports this law like: Unidad Civil por La República. This Group support this law saying that "not only the Christianist religion could define what kind of things are good or bad." "In the democratic school, students are teached in knowledge that will be usefull for them in their future work, and  also they teach them values." This argument for many people could be reasonable because this measure put Spain with the others European Democracies, but for other people this measuse could be detestable because most of  spanish society in catholic and this would affect them very badly because they would feel that his country has abandoned them, to follow the basics of European Democracy.   

However, some people could argue that this law is not good or bad. There are associations like SOS BULLYING. That talk about the problems of bullying: to what kind of people affect?,when do you know that your son is being affected ...Other associations like El Refugio, ask spanish goverment to change the law, and to harden punishments to the causers of bullying. Goverment is taking measures and is going to modify the law. Since january is going to inform parents that their sons are bullying, or are being bulled by other boys. Because of the increasing of this problem, government is going to investigate the causes of this trouble. Goverment is creating some handbook, that would serve to prevent bullying, those handbook will be provided in tutorial hours. For parents colective those measures would not be enough, but for other people those measures would be well for the beginning.

In conclusion,  we can see that are many arguments to deffend, and to contradict the new education law. Some of them deal with the majority of Christianists in spanish society, and the less consideration to them. Those arguments seems to be more logicals, because them deffend the interests of the spanish population. Other arguments which deffend the new law, talk about the new subject that government is impeling " education to citizens". And finally the last argument is not against or defending the new law. This group of people only wants the secutity of their sons and ask for this purpose to the spanish goverment.    




