
In the world there are a lot of problems such as: racism, sexism, pollution ... But over the course of the years terrorism( specially Muslim terrorism), poverty in the undeveloped countries and injuries like AIDS, have become in my opinion in the most worrying problems. In this essay I am going to argument why those problems are so important for me. 

The trouble of terrorism. First of all this trouble is so important for me because affects all kind of people in the world. Maybe anyone could think that the others problems that I have mention after are also so important, but in my view it is not true because from terrorism, specially from Muslim terrorism, dies a lot of innocent people: childrens, pregnants..all over the world. An illustration of this are the attacks to the Twin Towers in which 2973 people died, or the blasted of the four bombs at Atocha Station which caused 191 deads. Personally, I think that terrorism is not fair because: apart of that in the attacks dies a lot of people, those attacks are the result of the economical interests that some countries have in the others. As a result of those fights, the rising generations of those countries believe in war, and have differents minds of us. I believe that it is not only a problem of inocent people's death, otherwise is the problem of the separation between the Islamic and the Occidental culture.

Some people may argue that hunger and poverty can not be erradicated in the undeveloped countries and because of this, they put less atention to those problems. Personally I think that those problems are important because every day, more than 16.000 children die from hunger-related causes, one child every five seconds. Another example of hunger that in my view should open the mind of those who think that those problems are not so important, is in the U.S, where 38.2 million, including 13.9 million children live in households that experience hunger or risk of hunger. In my opinion the goverment should spend more money in the undeveloped countries because: Worldwide, more than 1 bilion people currently live below the international poverty line, earning less than $1 per day. Among this group of poor people, many have problems to obtain adecuate nutritious food for themselves and their families. As a result, 815 million people in the developing world are undernourished.  And in my opinion this is not possible, because there are a lot of organizations which sends money and food for them, and if those things are for them, why are they dying of hunger and poverty?

A lot of people believe that they will never been affected by AIDS and personally, I think that nevertheless injuries specially AIDS these days have grow up very fast, and anyone who have relationships with a person infected of this injure can be also infected, and those people who think that they will never been affected, should take care in their health. Personally, I believe that goverments should take measures to combact this trouble, because in the developing countries this problem is increasing more and more, because they do not have condoms or other methods contraceptives and their children may also have this injure. For me, this is not fair because every body independently of his sex or his color of skin, should have access to all the new measures to combat this problem. An illustration of this serious problem is that: approximately 40 million people are living with AIDS in the world. Of them, 60 percent live in Sub-Saharan Africa. Another example which support my opinion is that: each year, another 5 million people become infected of AIDS and more than 3 million people die of this injure. Finally in my view Christian Religion should allow the use of condoms in the undeveloped countries where there are a lot of Christians, and in my opinion with this measure the number of infected of AIDS will decrease.

To conclude, I am going to sum up the main issues nowadays : firstly and in my opinion the most important problem, is the Muslim terrorism which affects all kind of people that have done nothing to die. Secondly the trouble of hunger and poverty, that in most cases suffer people who live in developing countries and that in my opinion goverments should take measures to combact it. And finally, the last problem which is related to injuries specially AIDS, which is increasing more and more and also affects to the majority of people which live in undeveloped countries. 

