
In this essay I will attempt to argue that in my view the three social issues that are the most worrying these days are: gender violence, the elevated price of the house and the stress.

First, I think that the most important in gender violence, because every day we hear in the mass media that more and more there are women killed by their husbands or boyfriends. I can't understand how they can kill to the person of whom they are in love, to the person with the one they got married with. In my opinion, the justice should to work harshly against these killers, so a lot of times I have heard that one woman has denounced to her husband or boyfriend for ill-treatments and before the lawsuit has been consider by the court he had already killed her. Some people think that if some women are mistreated is for something, because they deserve it. However I strongly believe that this argument is absurd, nobody deserves that somebody mistreats him or what is worse, somebody kills him. I consider that above the violence always is the dialogue. But not always is a physical ill- treatment, a lot of times is a matter of psychological ill- treatment and I consider that is the worst one because the wounds are dressed soon, but the psychological damage take long in be dressed. Few days ago I read in internet that the WHO multi- country study on women's health and domestic violence against women, is a landmark study that shows that violence against women is widespread with far reaching health consequences. It calls government to take concerted action and makes recommendations for the health, education and criminal justice sectors to take the problem seriously. 

The second social issue that I think is also one of the most worrying nowadays is the elevated price of the house. In my opinion, the house, especially in Spain, is reaching exorbitant prices, prices that I believe that young people can't pay them. I consider that young people have very difficult to make independent, so they will take more and more in going away of their parent's home. However some people think that if young people don't make independent is because they prefer to live on their parent's home forever. But I don't agree with this, because is true that some youths don't want to make independent, but the majority don't make independent because they can't pay so much money for a house. The elevated price that has reached the house in Spain arises, in my opinion, of the price of the ground that, for my viewpoint, is an instrument of the City councils to finance itself. Should to have approved a law that said that it isn't urbanizable what the City councils say but to revs: that all the ground is urbanizable except which the City council reserves for cultural, recreational questions, parks, schools... Of this form I think that the price will be lower in the middle of what is today.

The third that in my opinion is another worry social issue these days is the stress endured by the majority of the people nowadays. Our rhythm of life causes us so much stress. In my opinion, we ought to take the life in a way more calm. So the stress can be very harmful for us, it can provokes ailments to our hurt, lack of hair and lack of sleep. Stress is often associated with situations that we find difficult to handle. How we view things also affects our stress level. Some people argue that the stress is something psychological, something that is created by our mind, because they consider that the rhythm of life always has been thus, and the people never had stress. I do not agree with this because on my viewpoint is evident that the rhythm of life has accelerated in the last years since the people nowadays have more obligations, more things to do, less free time... People are so busy with the job, the house, children..., nowadays there are more occupations that few years ago, and this generates stress.

To conclude, I would like to give some optimistic thoughts. Maybe if we collaborated more to prevent that have more cases of gender violence doing that the laws be severer, if among all proposed solutions so that the price of the house be more accessible and if we did that our lives be calmer distributing more our time; our society would go to better and there wouldn't be so many issues for which to worry. 
