                In our present society, there are some problems which the majority of Spanish people worry about, because they have an influence in their lives. We usually don't need to read newspapers, listen to the radio or watch the news bulletin to realize that there are problems like immigration ,"the botellón" or abuses that lots women suffer which have been present in our lives for a lot of years.

               To start with, I am going to talk about immigration. Nowadays, this is one of the most important problems that Spain is facing up because lots of immigrants come to our country without legal permission, and in very bad conditions everyday; and nothing is being doing to control them.
On the one hand, they have the right to live in the same conditions as we do, and find a job so as to earn money and be able to live their lives. Also, thanks to them ,the number of births is increasing and there are a lot of young people who is working in non-wanting jobs like pintors, plumbers, workers..
On the other hand, these people can't "invade" our country when they want and without the right papers.
In mi opinion, I think that the authorities should pass some new laws in order to regulate the illegal entrance of immigrants and improve their way of living.

             Another important point is the well-known "botellón". This new way of enjoying the free-time is becoming more famous among young people because drinks are too expensive in discos, pubs...and the youth haven't got enough money for paying them. This is the reason why young people prefer buying their own drink in a supermarket to paying it in a pub.
Personally, I think that, this is a good idea because they can save some money and meet new people.
However, I could disagree with this because since people started doing "the botellón", most of pubs and discos have lost the necessary money for opening the whole weekend. Also, places, where people stay during "the botellón" finish very dirty and this makes people who live around them get very angry.
In spite of this, I think that if young people cleaned what they throw away and the prices of drinks in pubs and discos were cheaper, everybody would be happier and satisfied.

              To finish with, we should pay attention to a problem that has been affecting women during lots of years: physical psychological abuses of men.
Psychologists specialised in this topic agree that this violent behaviour some men have can be induced by alcohol, drugs or it simply maybe as a result of a traumatic childhood.  No matter what the reason is, this behaviour can't be ever justified.
A recent survey reveals that places where women complaint men for abuses the most, are Bilbao and Vitoria. However, Vizcaya is the town where more aggressions are being carried out. Another important piece of information is that, between 60 or 70 women have been victims of abuses in the last ten years.
Sincerely, I could never justify abuses, because I think there are better ways of solving problems like splitting up with the partner or just having a quiet speaking. Some women are afraid of their husbands because they think that if they leave them the situation is going to get worse; but what they have to do is try to be brave, face them up and so, stop this abuse.

In conclusion, though these are some of the most important problems in our present society, there are other different problems such as important as these that must being had into account.
My opinion is that we can't hope that this problems change overnight, so tend a solution we should do something quickly in order to the problem of the immigration, "the botellón", and the abuses to women.









































