The Spanish education system has suffered some modifications in last years.
Lately some new laws, which are very argued among Spanish society, had been passed, we can see it everyday in the media. The conflicts about education system began in 1990, with a new reform about the system called LOGSE and nowadays the discussion continue with a new law called LOE .In this paper, I am going to discuss about system's reform.

In last years some new laws have been passed by the Spanish government. The more well-known are LOGSE and LOE, which are still been critized, because they produce some important changes in pupil's education. LOGSE, means a new method of education, people think it's a good law because it consists of increasing the obligatory age to study until 16 years, some parents and pupils say that this new system is a very important advance and a progress in the old education system that could open doors to rest of pupils that don't want continue studying .The other new law I will talk about is called LOE, some pupils are agree with it, this is why they will be able to choose their own religion, like people say this is other important advance because you can elect other religion don't practice in Spain or choose a new subject called "Educación para la ciudadanía" , this rule will be perfect like people say for new immigrants, who not share our religion. The trouble is that this new laws do that the LOGSE's level will be lower and our religion will be less studied by people.

There are other arguments against the new educational system. The LOGSE and LOE are very argued among Spanish's teachers and parents, who think that this new laws could make that the learning, would be slower and boring. On one hand and talking about LOGSE, the teachers say that in spite of the level is lower than other previous generations, they feel obligated to stay in class when they don't want to have new knowledge, this is why they usually disturb in class and hold the learning up of another interested pupils. On other hand, LOE is very critized by the people, they are protesting, the last attended more of 375.000 people, constituted mostly, by religious people and teachers against of this law; firstly because they think that it must be taught Catholic Religion because  it is part of our culture; secondly because religion's teachers won't have work in a few years. The worst of this is that in some years, Spain will be a lot of religion but not concretely one like now, the unemployment will increase with religion's teachers, priests...and this reform will produce a very important cost for our state.

A recent study reveals that in spite of Spanish society think, Spain isn't the country where pupils get the worst results in spite of the two new laws passed recently; it's true that Spain isn't the country with best reports neither but there are another European countries, which can't achieve the Spanish result in spite of their efforts; in them there are important problems developed like aggressions among pupils and teachers and among the own pupils. 

In conclusion, we can see that there are some new laws that are much argued among people, teachers, parents and pupils. There are people who disagree with this new laws and think that the correct could be that the Spanish society could to vote in favour or against them, because political's  opinion ,which decided if a new law is passed or no ,isn't enough ,for example second law, I have talked about, depends strongly if the people are or aren't religious. Like some teachers say, we should pay attention to pupils, because we only will know what happen with education system through them.
