Nowadays many people seem to be worry because some social issues have increased in the last year and this has done big part of society is scared. Hoever, although there are many social issues but this essay only consider three of them: gender-based violence,terrorism and drugs. The result of these problems is that a country like Spain has a social crisis because the number of deaths grow more and more each year.

Many men feel superior to women, and in many ocassions it produces gender violence. It is essencial that it should prevent in the world because most of them suffer physical abuse by her husband. First, we can define this like a type of violence as physical as psychological that carry out against the women to reason for her sex is based on her false biology inferiority of men. It's because of a social group insists on the false inferiority to other, they don't worry about other people but to defend his superiority. Then, most of them say his fury and violence with women, and it indicates the fear that they have to lose his power over them because they think women have to be under his control and orders. Secondly, the attackers don't admit to be maltreater, don't feel guilty only practise the sexism that have recibed in his family atmosphere and the society and culture in which they live. In addition, the women reproduce the practices of male domination daily and assume prohibitions and the contempts of her work at home because they are not aware of sexism appears in power structures regulate the relations between two sexs. Thirdly, many women don't report to them because they have fear and shame. They feel defenceless, depend on them and have a big affection too and ashamed about her debility, in addition, they live her relationship with a big guilty feeling, accept responsability for the situation and they punish themself for this. Next, women get phisical and sexual violence, it's the normal information that many newspapers and news tell us, but there're others more important too like moral andpsychological violence. Many people says battered woman is usually doesn't have much money, comes from slums where her husband beat her and so on. Nevertheless, gender violence spread though all social levels and the attackers are the all nationalities, religions, culturals levels and so on. Fot this there're many attackers in all world, and in some cases died many women for example the last victim of gender violence is the number 51, these women were murdered by their husband or the last relationship. Finally, gender violence is one of the problems very common in our country and it happens because men think that have more power than a woman but it is not true because everybody are same and to have the same rights.

Other big social problem in our country is the terrorism and the most important group in Spain is ETA which has caused millions of inocent deaths and has sowed terror and panic in the society with bombs and many murders address against anyone member of society. Terrorism is a minority who pretends to impose their ideas with the force  of bombs to a majority without them. It isn't new but many people usuallyothers terrorisms like those that practised them and now are practising since legality of State using army of country and their secret services, there're many examples: Pol Pot, The Tonton Marcutes of Haiti until Pinochet and Argentina militaries with their brutal suppresion. But there are many differences between them the aspect more important would be the simple fact that some don't have other manner of fight to they think it's correct, in others words, they haven't voice, freedom of gathering, they don't recognize their rights and others act in democratic countries where a constitution give them the oportunity and the right to get supporters, they give to know their creed and to have dyputies in the Parlament give that defend them. Maybe, this people don't accept a democracy which it's approved by majority, it isn't designing of their taste or they are aware that don't avance their supporters. This involve like they have to impose their will and their ideas to the rest of the people. However, nobody know like will can finish it with ETA. But many internatinal experiences and the antecedent of self-dissolution would guarantee the hypothesis exit of department. This does that violence dissapear with ETA directings convince that to sequester, to kill and to demolish is useless. Then, each two or three years, PNV direction says there're symptoms that involve ETA want to find exit of department and here would be the moment to begin a process of dialogue. Finally, terrorism cause many destructions of houses, buildings and so on but the most important thing is the million of inocent deaths. This is because there're people who are not agree with the Constitution and they reveal with a big explotions of bombs in order that to get their intentions.

Other important social issue are drugs although they are illegal many people consume them. These subtances are very dangerous becuse cause big problems of health and produce many harmful effects like serious illness, damages, psychological and organic problems for example depression, hepatitis, psicosis. Drugs are all those substances whose consumption can produce dependence, stimulation or depression from nervous system or give like result a disorder in the funtion od sense. There are many clases of them like marijuana, cocaine or tranquillizers and the alcohol is other type of them too because it produce dependence. It is important because we live in a culture of drug since we take caffeine when people have brakfast in the morning until people relax in the evening. Next, nowadays the principal consumers of drugs are most of young people because they use them to enjoy at the disco or with their friends and to forget their problems without to realize the big effects that produce them. Finally, drugs have many bad effects than good for this reason people shouldn't consume them and intent enjoy without.

In conclusion, we can see that three social issues have several consecuences but it exists some solutions. One possible answer to resolve gender-based violence is democratic State promotes conditions so that people have the same freedom and equality, for this it should post economics and educational resources. In addition, women shouln't permit  this situation and reporter it. Then, one possible answer toresolve the terrorism would be through agreement of peace reasonable like this we prevent many deaths and destructions. Finally one pssible solution fot people who take drugs shold go to specially places of distoxic where can help them. In my opinion we mustn't let so many people die every day with dangerous substances, violence and terrorism.

