
In our present society cloning is a controversial topical issue. Cloning can be defined as the process of creating an identical copy of an original organism or thing. In the biological sense, a cloning, is an organism directly copied from another living organism and genetically identical. Although there are so many ways of understand the term cloning, in this essay I will only consider the human and animal cloning, I am going to argue in favour of cloning.

First of all, I think that human cloning has possible advantages like therapeutic cloning. Therapeutic cloning could be used to provide replacement organs  for people who have had theirs damaged. In my opinion it is a good way to use human cloning
because it gives other opotunity to people who maybe are nearly dead and it does not have rejection problems. It could be argue that human cloning is inmoral in the ethical way because it is "unnatural" but there are so many things which are not natural in our lifes: buildings, clothes, technology, etc. So I do not consider valid this argument. Cloning can give people a second chance.

Secondly, I think that cloning could be used to revive extinct species. We know that we can use cloning to create an identical copy of a living organism, in this case the living organism is an animal. The most famous case is Dolly the sheep. I tend to believe that we can cloning endagered species too. With animal cloning we can save some animal species like giant panda, we can repopulate them. Some people feel that everybody's life is designed by God and the think that scientist musn't play with lifes. They maintain that so many animals could be killed just trying to get one animal, like in Dolly's case. Dolly was cloned in 1996 after 277 failed attempts. My own view is that scientist need to experiment in order to improve cloning techniques. If cloning techniques are better, failed attempts will decrease. I disagree with the idea of "playing God" , I strongly believe that humans must use technology in their own benefit, and cloning is a kind of technology.

Finally, some people may argue that cloning is an expensive technology and scientist should stop to experiment because a lot of experiments failed and they fail too cost-benefit analysis. It mean that cloning is a lost cause because it doesn't have an elevate succes rate. It seems to me that the success rate of cloning has been low. For example, in extinct species cloning attempts to extract DNA from frozen mammoth have been unsuccessful. One of the obstacles to achieve it is that perfect DNA is needed. I think that cloning costs don't have any importance if cloning attempts are successfull. I mean, in the last years there are so many failed cloning attempts, but scientists need money and failed experiments to improve cloning techniques, to expand their researches. In addition, it must be considered that cloning is an experimental technology.

In conclusion, for my part I believe that human and animal cloning have possible advantages, the most important is therapeutic cloning and extinct and endangered species cloning. We have seen that some people are against cloning but I stongly feel that their oarguments are not valid when we talk about human beings benefits. Scientists should try to improve cloning techniques because in the future it could help terminally ill people, it could keep them alive; it applies equally in animal cloning. In my opinion, everybody should open their mind because it means the advance of our society.


