
      The smoking ban law in Spain, has generated controversy in the last year. This law take effect in january of 2006. It prohibit smoking in public places like companies, health establishments, educational institutions, sports grounds or shopping centres. In small bars or restaurants the owner can choose if his bar is a smoking or non smoking bar. Big bars and restaurants must separate smoking and non smoking sections. With this current law only tobacconist's shops and some bars can sell tobacco. There are so many different opinions in favour and against this law.In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning this new law in Spain.

      On one hand, some people are agree with this law because it takes care of health. This law help to respect the non-smokers rights, the fact of separate smoking and nonsmoking sections allow non-smokers avoid the secondhand smoke, it allow them to choose the posibility of smokefree environments. Not only non-smokers are in favour of this law, sometimes smokers prefer smokefree enviroments because they are nicer places. It is apparently true that tobacco consumption has decreased during this year with this current law. These arguments are strong because they look after people health and non smokers-rights and nobody can argue against them.

      On the other hand, one of the arguments against this law is that smoking is a social custom which is very deep-rooted in Spain, maybe for this reason it so difficult that people respect the law everytime. It is reasonable to argue that this law require that the owners remodel their big restaurants in order to separate smoking and no smoking sections and it involve an expenditure of several money. If the restaurant or bar is small the owners would lose some customers because maybe they are not agree with the owner's choice. Other one possible argument is that the small shops which sold tobacco before would lose some money now because it is illegal sell tobacco now.These arguments are rather persuasive, except perhaps the first, because although smoking is a social custom deep-rooted in Spain it is a nocive custom which people should eliminate, it is against people health.

      There is a mid point of view too. Some people believe that this law is a good thing but they suggest that companies and universities should have a smoking section because for example in companies workers lose some time while they are smoking outside, university students would claim that in winter it is cold outside. Many people could argue that although the prohibition of smoking in public places is a good thing they are not agree with the fact of only tobacconist's shops and some bars can sell tobacco. The second argument do not comtemplate the fact of young people: some people who are not older than 18 (legal responsability age in Spain) buy tobacco, and without vending machines everywhere is more difficult that they can buy it.

      
      
      So then, there are many arguments  concerning the smoking ban law in Spain.
The main arguments in favour are the fact that it takes care of people health and non-smokers rights. On the other hand, this law has generated controversy because smoking is a social custom in Spain, but the strongest argument against the law is the money which owners of big establishments must invert in order to remodal their restaurants. Maybe the solution is in the mid point of view, because the most persuasive argument of this point of view do not harm people health and in addition it demandes smoking sections in some public places where there are not at the moment.
