      
      Death penalty is the execution of a convicted criminal by the state as punishment for crimes known as capital crimes or capital offences. It is current in approximately 90 countries like United States, Guatemala, most of the Caribbean and some african and asian countries. In most places that practise capital punishment today, the death penalty is reserved as a punishment for premeditated murder, espionage, treason, or as part of military justice. However in some Moslem countries sexual crimes and religious crimes such as apostasy from Islam carry the death penalty too. Some methods of execution are electric chair, lethal injection and in Moslem countries also people stone criminals. There are opinions in favour and against death penalty. In this essay I will try to point out the different arguments concerning this issue.

      On one hand, some people are in favour of death penalty. They support that it stops crime and prevents recidivism  because in their own opinion if someone has fear of death, he don't commit crimes.Of course although death penalty is current people still commit crimes but, at least, crimes decrease. Other argument in favour is that it is an appropriate punishment for the crime of murder. Some people would argue that killers must pay murders with their own blood, it mean an eye for an eye. This point is rather convincing, although, if they think that capital punishment protects the innocent of society against the violence of criminals they must no consider the posibility of kill someone, because it is also violent.

      On the other hand there are some argument against death penalty. Opponents of death penalty argue that it does not dissuade criminals more than life imprisonment and in addition it is probably that they have more fear of a life imprisonment than of death. It seems that  the death penalty has shown itself to be an ineffective punishment because the fact is that if one person wants kill someone, he will do it, he won't fear of death. One of the main arguments against is that it violates human rights because everybody has right to life, for this reason,  some people would argue that it is inmoral, nobody can punish other with death. This argument seems to make sense because everyday and all over the world human rights are violated and probably people play down the importace of this. 

      In addition, it discriminates against poor people because they do not have enough money in order to pay a good lawyer, if you have a good layer, you have more possibilities of be find innocent. Other one possible argument against death penalty is that it exists the posibility of execution of some who are wrongfully convicted, there has been several cases, in some of these cases, the supposed criminal (who is really innocent) has escaped of death, but in other cases an innocent person has dead. These arguments seem logical, because it is reality that in our world poor people look certain to lose. Moreover everybody makes mistakes so one person could be find  guilty when he is innocent.

      There is a mid point of view too. Some people are in favour of death penalty sometimes but against of it in other cases. They could be argue that death penalty is an appropriate punishment when the criminal is recidivist or when he commits a genocide. Of course people could be in favour of it if the supposed criminal has been judged correctly and it do not exist the possiblity of kill an innocent person. This could be considered a realistic perspective, because is really difficult to be in favour or against death penalty completely, there are so many different situations and each of the must be consider separate of others.
      
      In conclusion, there are so many different oppinions about death penalty. The arguments in favour are: it deters crime, prevents recidivism, and is an appropriate punishment for the crime of murder. The arguments against of it are: it is ineffective punishment, it violates human rights, it discriminates against poor people and it exists the posibility of execution of some who are wrongfully convicted. Also it exists a mid point of view that only is in favour of death penalty in some cases. Maybe the solution could be the abolition of death penalty because it could be prove if really death penalty has some benefits in our society.
      

