
      In our present society people are worried about the future of our planet. The situation has recently got worse with the fact of climatic change,wich is the variation of Earth's temperatures. This variation is caused by natural effects, but in the last centuries, humans have contributed to its increase with their activities too. One of the climatic change results we can recognize is global warming. In this essay I will show some ways in which I think we can reduce global warming.
	
	First of all, I believe that suistanable development can hold up global warming because it seeks to develop means of supporting economic growth while supporting biodiversity. Sustainability requires that human activity only uses nature's resources at a rate at which they can be replenished naturally. It could be argued that some resources, such as a petroleum are consumed much faster than they are created by natural processes. My personal opinion of this argument is that obviously there are some resources which can not be suistanable but I think that we should look for alternative forms of energy in order to stop environmental degradation. In addition, there are so many ways to contribute to suistanable development, for example, we can personally contribute at home, recycling paper or glass.

	Secondly, I think that the use of renewable energy is a good way to suistanable development because it is a kind of energy that can be replenished at the same rate it is used. I strongly believe that this form of energy can contribute to greenhouse gas mitigation. For example, wind power removes energy directly from the atmosphere, this fact contributes to it. Some people would argue that renewable sources hace an intermittent nature, like sunlight that is available only during the day when the sky is not cloudy. Moreover they could be argue also that the construction and the maintenance of renewable energy infrastructures are so expensive. However, my own view of these arguments is that we must invest more money in the construction of renewable energy infrastructures because if we invest in them, they will be better and maybe in this way it will disappear problems like their availability. In addition, although they are expensive, in the future, they will compensate us and our planet.

	Finally there are so many things of daily life that contribute to the environmental degradation and global warming, like pesticides, sprays, car's smoke, wasted energy or water air conditioning, and so on. In my opinion we can stop global warming in our own homes. For example: we can use recycled paper (and recycle paper), change our air conditioning filter, take shorter showers, replace old appliances or share the car with our friends and co-workers and use public transport when it is possible. Possible arguments against of this, is that it is expensive replace old appliances or change the air filter or it is uncomfortable share the car or use public transports, or simply some people could argue that they refuse to take shorter showers or use recycled paper. I strongly believe that nothing is enough in order to save our planet, we must make an effort because, really is not difficult to contribute to stop global warming and environmental degradation with little actions in our daily life.

      In conlusion, we have seen some possible solutions to stop global warming, like suistanable development, renewable energy, or our colaboration in daily life at home. We have seen too that usually money is a problem, for example renewable energy infrastructures are so expensive or replace old appliances can be resulted expensive too. For my part I think that money doesn't matter if it contributes to stop environmental degradation, we must reduce the damage at minimum because gobal warming has negative effects in our lives and probably if environmental damage still increasing it may be the end of our planet as we know it now. From my point of view, earth's future is in our hands.

