       Traffic problems in a big urban city, such as Madrid, are nowadays very worrying and the population should try to find some solutions in order to avoid them. Researches done by the INE (Instituto Nacional de Estadística) in 2005 show that Madrid has over 5,921,066 inhabitants, so we can imagine the great quantity of cars all these people may use. This excessive number of cars usually leads to traffic jams in rush hours, what means amazing concentrations of vehicles and the desperation of every person involved. In my opinion, finding a solution to this kind of problems is extremely important because this problem itself may lead to others such as air pollution or road accidents.  In this essay I will try to propose some solutions that may finish up with traffic problems in our city. 
       
       In my view, the simplest way in which this problem could be dealt with would be by promoting public transport. It appears to me that if a majority of people used buses, trains or underground, the number of cars would decrease. Of course public vehicles have a problem: a problem of inmediateness, nearness and timetables that make cars more comfortable as a way of transport. Though I believe that if there were services that warned of the delays, more transports which passed in less time, cheaper prices and social campaigns which made people realize that we need more public spirit and that we should try to solve traffic problems, people would use public transport instead of cars and this problem could be reduced.    
       
       It seems to me that another good way to avoid traffic problems is sharing cars.  I think that instead of using three cars, three people who live or work close to each other should try to share only one car in order to reduce traffic jams at worktime. This can be argued because many people have different timetables although they live next door but, in my opinion, this can somehow be solved by combining this sharing with the use of public transport. 
       
       In other hand, I would like to propose another solution to end with the great concentration of cars in Madrid that does not deal with citizens, but with the government.  This solution is the improvement of infrastructures. I have always believed that Madrid has a very good road system and a great town planning, but that does not mean that it could be improved in order to avoid the recent traffic problems that were not present when the road and urbanistic system was made. That would suppose a lot of public works, but I personally would say that we need to be patient because that could solve a current problem that affects our society.   
       
       
       Finally, I feel that we can try to reduce traffic problems by imitating a measure that was taken for this same problem in other cities, such as London. That measure consists of restricting sometimes the access to enter the city centre to private vehicles. In my opinion, that is a good solution because a great amount of people go to the centre by car and it is soon saturated. This involves a problem which is the shock that could cause in the population this drastic measure. It would be a great change but I believe that we all can get used to this in few time if we analize the reason for this kind of measure.   
       
       To sum up, we all can observe that traffic problems are nowadays affecting our city and we could try to solve them by taking different measures. One of them could be the promotion of public vehicles in order to reduce the usage of cars; in my view, this is probably the best solution to this problem. Other solutions may be the improvement of infrastuctures or the car-sharing between neighbours. At last, I think that we could solve the problem too by limiting the entrance by car to the centre of the city. I would like to end by saying that we should not let traffic problems grow because they can provoke some worse problems like environmental pollution or more deaths in road accidents: if we do not try to solve traffic problems now, we will regret it afterwards.        
       
       



















