
       Nowadays a majority of people question themselves whether our planet is safer since the war against terrorism began. This is a very present issue in modern society and it has become a common subject to talk about because of the facts that shocked the world a few years ago. The debate had always existed, although it suddenly raised when the terrorist attack of the 9/11 took place and the USA answered back with a war in which a lot of countries were involved, some of them supporting it and others rejecting it. The number of consequences that this kind of actions have in the whole world is the reason for the presence of several and different viewpoints concerning to this subject. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the main perspectives dealing with the safety of the world since the arrival of the fight against terrorism. 
       
       One of the strongest arguments that support that we live safer now because of the war against terrorism is that we need a drastic measure to make terrorists realize that they should not try to attempt again, to put a stop to this kind of behaviour. It is generally felt that the war is a punishment for terrorist attacks, that are inexcusable. The Bush administration maintains that the fight against terrorism is a fight to preserve the rule of law and equal justice. This may be seen by some people as a radical point of view because it could be claimed that the war leads only to more violence, and more attacks could be carried out because of the "an eye for an eye" and so, the world would not be a safer place.  
       
       In this way, another viewpoint is that the world instead of being safer than before is more dangerous after actions against terrorism commenced. According to Amnesty International, the 'war on terror', far from making the world a safer place, has made it more dangerous by restricting human rights. Many people agree that the anti-terrorist policies have deepened divisions among people of different faiths and origins, sowing the seeds for more conflict. Those who support this argument state that it has been suggested that the anti-terrorism fight has taken place in order to reach peace, and with violence and war is impossible to achieve that goal. However, there are people who would argue this viewpoint, in spite of being very reasonable and sensible, because it could be pointed out that terrorist actions could not be just disregarded; they must have a corresponding punishment.  

       Finally, it could be believed that the world is neither safer nor unsafer despite the war against terrorism. Those who support this would say that governments have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their citizens, but measures taken must not undermine fundamental human rights. People have logically pointed out that if it was necessary to face terrorist attacks, the outpouring of concern and condemnation should not be as hard as it has been. This means that we can't merely ignore terrorism, but we must act with moderation in order not to create more conflict.  
       To sum up,  there are many arguments concerning the safety of the world since the war against terrorism began. On one hand, some of them point out that this kind of war is necessary in order to make our planet safer because, with it, terrorism could be pulled up by the roots at once. On the other hand, it may be believed that war only generates violence, so the conflicts can't be stopped with it. We can also find some points of view that show the world is not safer than before though it is not more dangerous, and that we should punish terrorist actions but with moderation in order not to expect a response. Overall, this is the most defended argument: moderation, dialogue and cooperation are the key to make the world safer, not a war based on violence.   
























