Nowadays, there are different perspectives about the Spanish education system. Some groups of people say that it has some weaknesses. A recent study indicates that education in Spain is worse than in any other European country, and that has generated many criticisms. For this reason, the Spanish government has reacted; making new laws to improve the methods of education, but this does not seem to be enough. In this essay, I will discuss and analyse some of the main viewpoints concerning the examination system. Viewpoints from Church, INCE company, the political party "Partido Popular" and the opinion of the Minister of education.

The Spanish Catholic Church declares that the education system in Spain is terrible and argues that one of the main reasons is that there are measures like LOGSE that students have done are not interesting in learning. Also this measure has caused the students to be less interested in religion, which they consider to be the main and the most important subject of the course. The priests argued that students who do not take religion as a subject have lost their good behaviour.

This opinion seems convincing because the state of education in Spain today is appalling.  This argument has certain weaknesses because parents do not consider religion to be the most important subject for their children and also students prefer choosing religion involuntarily, and not as a compulsory subject. Moreover, religion does not have the same importance as it did many years ago. Some companies like INCE believe that the insufficient quality of education that some recent studies reveal is owing to the limited training of the teachers who use inappropriate methods to teach students. This company argues that education needs new significant reforms but to raise the quality of the education system is not necessary as it will incur more costs. They think that teachers should be trained to teach. Moreover, they criticise the evaluation by exam is not enough to show that students whether or not students are eligible to pass the course. However, INCE is pleased with the efforts that the government has made as a result of the laws, which have been positive and have allowed the incorporation of many students.

These arguments seem reasonable and might help to get a better Spanish education system. It is apparently useless to blame teachers as in Spain most of them have had very good training and do not need a course. Also, some experts have shown that investing money in education is very important to improve the quality of service offered by this sector with new things which promote better learning such as computers and other tools in class.
Some political parties like "Partido Popular" believe that the education system in our country is not like in Finland, Ireland or Poland which is said to have the best system of education. Also, this political party argues that LOGSE has improved the educational level and the number of children enrolled. This shows that in a few years Spain will enjoy a better education and Spanish people will have a better system for learning, although it is certain that nowadays Spain has a high level of school failure which is an important issue that the government cannot ignore. This point is rather convincing, even education has some problems besides school failure as is very common in the world today.  The violence in class among students and the attacks that many teachers suffer every day in class are very important issues that this political party has not mentioned before, although the Spanish government has created new measures to improve education.
The Minister of Education has an opposing view about this topic and considers that education has increased in the last ten years. The new laws have had good results and many students today, mostly women, are now studying; an opportunity that years before many men and women did not have. The minister argues that today many students enjoy learning with computers and new technologies in education. Also today students have a lot of courses where learn new things like languages, computers, sports... etc that are at their disposal. They recognize that education in our country has some weaknesses that have to be resolved.
Some of the evidence shows that government has improved education with new laws that have done good results. One of them is that there are too many people studying people from dif






















Some of the evidence shows that government have improved education with new laws, courses... that have had good results because today in Spain there are too many people studying


