	Most people suffer the traffic problems in Madrid concern. Government has made many proposals to reduce it but not all of them have been efficient. In this essay I will suggest some possible solutions that I believe they would reduce the traffic in Madrid. In special I will talk about ending M-40 road construction, fomenting public transport, improving the street state and fomenting the "carril-bici".

	The first solution that I suggest is ending M-40 road constructions. I believe that, even thought they are very inconvenient, when they were finished the flow of vehicles will be better. Some people could argue that these better traffic conditions would attract more people coming to Madrid. But I believe that in both cases the flow of the traffic will not have any problem with the new installations.

	Secondly, I think that fomenting public transport is a good suggestion to reduce the traffic. In my opinion, government should invest more money in a good quality transport. It would include acquirable prices, good installations and maintenance. It would reach to every place or village situated in Madrid and their timetables would be appropriate and obeyed. People could think that it is not possible because of the cost of it. But I think that everybody who pay tax have the right to have a quality public transport.

	The third solution that I propose is improving the state of streets. I believe that if there were no hole, no pothole and there were ramps where there are stairs or steps, people would feel livelier and able to walk, ride their bikes or skate. Maybe some people would say that their cost, in the same case that before, is very high. But I would say to those people that the cost of pollution, stress and all the time wasted in traffic is more expensive that my suggestion.

	Finally, my last counsel is fomenting something that has just existed in Madrid, but it is not very fomented. These are the "carriles-bici". Two of them are: the "carril-bici" that comes from Madrid to Tres Cantos and another one is the "carril-bici" which comes from Casa de Campo to Horcasitas. The only disadvantage is the cost. But there are many people that have just started using it, leaving their vehicles.

	To sum up, I have proposed four possible solutions to reduce the traffic in Madrid: the end of M-40 road construction, fomenting public transport, improving the streets state and fomenting the "carril-bici". I conclude that if government invested more money in these possible solutions, pollution would reduce, people would feel better and healthier and the stress would be reduced too, even thought the cost were high. And I strongly believe that it is necessary to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

