        
        Since Spanish government established that the education had to be compulsory until a concrete age, when students became mature and able to choose what they want to do with their lives, education systems had been continuously changing. These changes are directly connected with political changes and the need of a continuous society development. Since 1.970 there have been seven different education systems. In our present society, different perspectives, proposals and education organisation systems are being debated. In this essay I will discuss objectively some of those different perspectives. 
        Firstly, some people feel that education system is efficient because of the aims that constitute the present education system, called L.O.E. These are some of their aims: the total development of the personality and the capacities of the students, an education laid the foundations of the respect of the rights and liberties; the equality of rights and opportunities between men and women and the equality of treatment and no-discrimination of the people with disabilities; within the democratic principles of coexistence, as well as in the prevention of conflicts and the pacific resolution of such; teaching for the individual responsibility and the merit and personal effort; teaching the respect to the human rights, the life in common, the social cohesion, the cooperation and solidarity between the towns as well as the acquisition of values that cause the respect towards the alive beings and the environment, the developing the capacity of the students to regulate its own learning, to trust its aptitudes and knowledge, as well as to develop the creativity; a formation in the respect and recognition of the linguistic and cultural plurality of Spain, the acquisition of intellectual and technical habits of work, scientific, technical, humanistic, historical and artistic knowledge, as well as the development of healthful habits, the physical exercise and the sport... The problem is that these aims are not always obtained.
        On the other hand, there is another viewpoint that argues that Spanish education system is not efficient because of the present education structure, based on the subject division since E.S.O. ("Educacion Secundaria Obligatoria"). It should bear in mind the increasing need of teaching values in class. This division permits the specialization in each subject and let the students see their interests for the future. But it leaves the global focus of education and it disconnects the subjects between them. This is a problem when they have to pose a present problem and they cannot connect it with subjects. In addition, since 1.996 the public cost invested on education has been reduced 0.15% (P.I.B.). Nowadays the differences of the government money invest on education between other OCDE ("Organizacion para la Cooperación y el Desarrollo Economico") states members is considerable. Some people argue that there are problems that require more money that the required for education system, like immigration control, housing, delinquency... But some of those problems would not be so dramatic and increasing if government invested more money in education. Then less people would have to resort to some of these problems. Some of the consequences of the inefficient education system are: school failure, violence out and in the class and loss of teacher authority.
        However, The PISA study evaluates in a general way the education system to their members. In the last study (2.003) participated forty two states and Spain was one of them. Thirty states from this study, including Spain, are OCDE members. The last evaluation indicates that Spain had not satisfactory results in relation to other states. But it is not the worst. In fact, in relation to equality between students, Spain is situated in one of the best positions, doing better that those states that get better results, like Germany or Belgium. This study indicates that those unsatisfactory results have been caused because of social, economic and cultural factor. Other part of this study indicates that schooling expectation for children younger than five years has progressed.
        In conclusion, Spanish education system could be seen from different viewpoints. In this essay I have discussed three possible perspectives: the optimist vision of education system which defends the original aims from L.O.E., the vision of an unsatisfactory and inefficient education system and the PISA study which affirms that this education system doesn't occupy the best position but it is not the worst of all members. Possible solutions or recommendations to improve the present system education could investing more money in education, improving the teacher preparation, spending more time in each student and keep on making new laws and proposals.
