I am going to talk about the main problems among the sapinsh society.
 All the people have a lot of problems but the ones that worry more are economyc, unemployment and public housing.
 In my opinion there are worst facts such as terrorism or racism, because this acts are those who really destroy the Spanish society, because for a fact or for other one always people end up by dying.But I am going to go deeply into economyc, unemployment and public housing.
 Public housing has a lot of inconvenients.Of these, the price is one of the most serious.There are several solutions have been given to face this problems, one of them is building thirty meters squared houses.In my opinion this kind of houses is a good option at the moment, because other problem is the under birth rate and in a house of this size a couple can't form a family, the main problem in public housing is the speculation. The true is that goverment don't do all they could because if the state put more official protection houses inflaction could disappear,because is cheaper buying this kind of flats.However small houses are a good option for people who live alone (students, singles, etc...), but is a short term solution.
  As regards economy, Spain has had different periods troughout history.But the ones that stand out are autarchy(spanish products, couldn't be traded with other countries), foreign trade and international economy improved.GDP(gross domestic product) has experienced an icrease of 3,08%, the highest in Spain since 2001.I think that this problem needs many time because is a long process and the truth is that Spain has recovered in a short time, because after civil war the country fell in a big depression  as result of the dictatorship of Franco, because when Franco died Spain was in its worst moment in all senses but mainly economically. I think that Spain is doing a good job.
  Unemployment is a big problem in all society. Spain and Poland are the countries that spend more money in unemployment. Andalucia and Cataluña are the autonomous region that demand more unemployment. In my opinion this is the worst problem because is the only that has not envolved, instead with the time the problem is more and more,  and now obtaining a work is more complicated because of the inmigration; immigrants are arranged to work more by less money, for this reason the new generation are called:"1000 Euristas".Nevertheless I think that  inmigraton is positive because  changing among cultures are neccesary in our lives, and maybe the fault is the boss because they are who hire them. 
 All this have a big relationship, since the economy with the unemployment is practically the same and the public housing has the prices more and more high but the wages are the same, and de euro the prices also increase in general.
 On the whole I think that this problems are worryings but also think that other countryes have worst problems like: hunger, ills such as AIDS....and in my opinion Spain is doing a hard work to improve but is difficult, and the main  persons that can do this are the politicians and not always do the best for the country, and this is a big problem, but by the moment we can't do anything.
