 In this essay I am going to explain if the world is a safer place as result of the war against terrorism, or not.There are several viewpoints for and against, but I am going go deeply into the most important, they are the following:
 
 On one hand the opinion for,  they think that the world is a safer place, in this group we can find: George Bush and a a big part of U.S.A. They think that this war was necessary because islamic terrorism had attacked their country.Other countries supported Bush's Irak war, because they had been attacked too.In their opinion the result of this war is positive since when they attacked Irak U.S. became more powerful against them, Irak felt more defenceless and gave up. As consequence United States became stronger. Now, they believe that the world is safer than before, because they eliminate any form of violence and win in the war, therefore they are stronger and they think that they can control any situation of terrorism.

  On the other hand thought in aginst, at this group below: Other countries (specially european ones) thought that war against terrorism was only a way that would make Bush and goverments that supported him prosper with the petrol they got in the attacked zones. Besides they think that life is less safer than before because war only provoked deaths, violence and vengeance. Actually vengance is the problem, because when Irak attacked U.S.A and London, this countries attacked it and after, terrorists may want vengeance attacking them again. So in this situation the world with all attacks can be a less   safer place, because in a plain, in a train, or in a car it can be a pump, as consequence of the vengeance.

 Other viewpoint is the one of  people who think that world is safer but not thanks to the  war, since they agree with the first group that war was neccesary because attacks were growing  and must to be stopped. Besides, they also think that war was caused by an economical interest. Perhaps, this last issue is the problem, since probably Bush and his government team thought more in earning money than in the end of terrorism which unfortunately causes many deaths. 

 The last group believe that nowadays world is a safer place though they don't agree with the war, because they think that a war is always open and in a moment or another it could begin again. With wich they think that world is a safer place but thanks to the U.N ( United Organitation), and a lot of more organitations, because this kind of organitation use the diolag among the countries and they believe that perhaps this is the problem that the terrorism hasn't got dialog. Therefore they think that the world is a safer place but is neccesary more dialog.

  To sum up, is very difficult that all the people think at the same way, because ones can think that is better wait and before but another not. Certainly all they say that a war is the last option, that is better dialog, but this not always is true, everything is depending on interests that you have or you ideology you may think that starting a war is neccesary or not. An example of purpose of dialog is Spain, because the president is trying to agree to the terrorist, and many people see this position well, but another think that if you do this you are a terrorist too.  

 
            

