     In recent years, terrorism has passed from a localized or sporadic phenomenon to one of the world's most present problems. The destruction of the World Trade Center, recent terrorist acts in Europe, and the ever-present wars in Africa that target civilians have all served to bring this subject into general debate. In this essay, I will give my opinion on the 11M massacre, the war on terror in Iraq and the Spanish terrorist organization ETA.
     Terrorism is not a new subject in Spain. For many years, Spanish citizens have had to suffer the random murders of this criminal organization. ETA's allegedly strives for the independence of the Basque region in Spain. To this end, they blackmail law abiding entrepreneurs, threatening them and their families if they do not pay the so called "Impuesto Revolucionario", (revolutionary tax). They also kill politicians that are outspoken against them, as well as placing bombs in public places where they can kill large numbers of civilians in one go. All of these acts supposedly bring them closer to their goal of an independent Basque nation. In my opinion, they are just common criminals who find an easy way of life killing innocent people and pretending to be heroes. They should not be given any special treatment, because this will only prove their misguided opinion right. They believe they are special, that they are freedom fighters, and to be able to eliminate the threat they pose to society, they must be treated, and jailed, like common criminals. In this I believe that the former Spanish governments' hard line approach to dealing with the terrorist problem in Spain was the only correct way to deal with them, and that all negotiations for peace are a scam, because killing is the only way of making a living that these people know, so they will not give that up. However, it is true that we have still not seen the results that current antiterrorist policy will bring.
     The 11M massacre in Madrid was the first taste that Spain had of a different brand of terrorism. The so called "Islamic terrorism" is characterized by savage killings, much larger in scale than traditional terrorism, and by the fanatic willingness to sacrifice the terrorists life in order to kill nonbelievers. These terrorists are driven by their twisted perception of the Muslim faith, and in Madrid, managed to kill two hundred people and wound almost another thousand by placing bombs in several trains in Madrid. However, many aspects of this terrorist act do not match with the patterns that can be seen in other Islamic terrorist acts. For example, the World Trade Center terrorists died while committing their terrible deeds. The Israelis are used to lone gunmen shooting into crowds, who are then subsequently brought down by police officers. In England, the 11J terrorists also died in while setting off their bombs, and more recently, the terrorists that tried to bring liquid explosives onto several planes would also have died in the resulting explosion. Only the terrorists in Madrid did not die while setting off the bombs, while then committing suicide much later, setting off a bomb in their apartment and killing nobody but themselves. While these facts obviously prove nothing, it seems clear to me that something does not fit the pattern in the Madrid killings, and I can only hope that someday we will know the truth of what happened here.
     The war in Iraq drags on, and there seems no quick end in sight. It is extremely important for the future of the region that Iraq becomes a model for the rest of the countries around it. A modern, democratic, Muslim country, where women could go to school and receive medical help, and where the money from their productive oil fields would enrich the country as a whole instead of one, crazy dictator. However, the US's approach after the war, was, in my opinion, absolutely wrong. They disbanded Saddam Hussein's army, sending thousands of soldiers home with their only means of income taken away. With most of them having no other trade to apply, bitterness and armed resistance to the US Army's occupation was the only logical step. It is of prime importance that Iraq becomes a functioning country as soon as possible, because if somebody has nothing to lose, it is easier for him to turn to terrorist acts. Once established with a job and a family, thoughts of armed conflict an suicide seem much less attractive.
     Iraq is particularly important now, as it is the focus and the cradle of many of the terrorist actions taking place in the world. However, unfortunately Spain has many problems regarding terrorism that are closer to home. I believe that terrorism, in any form and in any place, will be one of the biggest problems that the civilized nations will have to face in the coming years.
