These days the world is supposed to be a safer place as a result of the recent conflicts and the measures taken in some aspects of our daily life after the recent terrorist attacks. This group of conflicts has been named 'War on terrorism' or 'War on terror' by the United States and its allies. Its main objective is making the world a safer place by defeating terrorist organizations, eliminating terrorist havens, etc. There are different opinions about whether the world has become a safer place or not and in this essay I am going to quote some different opinions of the safety of the world nowadays. The opinions of the groups will also be quoted.

The general feeling is that the measures that have been taken in the airports such as the prohibition of passengers carrying certain liquids or objects such as flammable or sharp objects with them, which are seemingly far from excessive, had helped to calm down the people and consequently, had helped to make travelling safer. Some people would say that these measures had helped to make the world a safer place since people can fly safely and even the people who want to travel to conflicting countries can do it without problems. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses: although the measures that have been taken help to make the world a safer place there is a lack of security in some means of transport such as train and this lack should be considered too.

On the other hand, many Muslims may argue that since the world lives on the alert for
a terrorist attack and the preventive measures had started to be put into action, they feel less safe because they are sometimes considered suspicious and everything they do is also considered suspicious. To this argument they add, as an example, the death of an innocent Pakistani on the London underground because of his Pakistani appearance. They point out that although they have been living here for several years, recently they do not feel safe in what they consider their own countries because they notice people looking suspiciously at them. This argument seems to make sense because they are used to be treated like common citizens and after the terrorist attacks they are the focus of attention in their own society. This may be true, but we have to take into account that this is a normal reaction from their neighbours who may feel unsafe near the Muslims. 

Some people would argue that the world isn't a safer place as a result of the war against terrorism but neither a less safe place; it means that some people do not feel that terrorism is the most worrying problem of our society and consider there are more pressing issues that governments should take care of because they might more likely affect them or that no matter how many security measures would be taken, there will always be a possibility of an attack .One of the main arguments against that could be that people never know when or where the next terrorist attack will take place and although the argument of the constant possibility may be true it is also true that security measures are never unnecessary.

According to several governments, war on terrorism is part of a series of measures taken in order to prevent terrorist attacks. This opinion has been strengthened after the terrorist attacks occurred in New York, Madrid and London and the discovery of terrorist cells spread all over Europe. The argument that the recent conflicts are part of a tactic to put an end to terrorism in order to make the world a safer place, may appeal to many people because it is a logical and convincing argument but we must not forget that the terrorist attacks of Madrid and London were a reaction to the invasion of Afghanistan by the United States. Then, it is reasonable to argue that the attempt to create a safer world might provide an answer that can contradict and worsen the original objective.

Many politicians have shown their disagreement with the measures taken by the governments since they complained that the promise of make the world a safer place is an excuse to increase the politician's popularity. It is no surprise that those who have complained are members of the opposition. For instance, British Liberal Democrat politician Shirley Williams pointed out that the American and UK governments must stop to think whether it is sowing the kind of resentment which is the seedbed of future terrorism. Researches also suggest that there is a correlation between increases in terrorism alert levels and increases in Bush's poll ratings. It seems reasonable to argue that there is an intelligent tactic from Bush and other politicians to spread the fear among the population, alerting of a possible terrorist attack which may never occur and by this, make the population feel free from danger. Consequently, the popularity of the politician increases remarkably. On the other hand, we cannot forget that this is the opposite parties opinion which does not focus on the safety of the world, but on the interests of the politicians.

In summary, in this essay I have focused on the different opinions of experts and groups about the improving or not so improving safety of our world as a result of the war against terrorism. There are people who are totally of the opinion that there has been an improvement in world's safety and there are totally opposite opinions of other groups which feel that they do not find the world a safer place, for example, the Muslims who live in countries such as the UK and Spain There are also people who do not believe there has been an improvement or a decline in the world's safety and politicians whose opinion is that there are political interests behind the security measures taken. It would be appropriate to say that the world has become a safer place after the war against terrorism because the governments have taken useful measures to prevent more terrorist attacks and, generally, the people are aware of the danger that they are exposed to.





