There are many worrying problems that affect our society. For each person they would be different worrying problems but in this essay, I'm going to deal with three of them that particularly seem to me to involve every part of society: drug consumption, nuclear terror and the importance of global warming.

First, drug consumption is very common above all among people who live in developed countries, and it affects the youth, who generally feel very attracted to the things that are forbidden. Anyway, there are many types of drugs: soft drugs(cannabis and hashish), those which aren't associated with death and in many cases are used by medical recipe and are not as addictive as hard drugs; and hard drugs, illegal drugs for non-medical use that are addictive and sometimes lead to death.

It seems to me that the opinions of celebrities who are considered "heroes" by teenagers have influenced in their actions and opinions. On the other hand, these comments are usually exaggerate.

In my opinion we have to mention also alcohol and nicotine and classify them into the list of the hard drugs since they are harmful to the health although they are legalized.
Some people defend themselves from this arguing that the effects of tobacco and alcohol aren't comparable with that of hard drugs such as cocaine and heroine.
However, surveys and research show how harmful their consumption could be and even that a compulsive use of tobacco, for instance, may end in several kinds of cancer, or in women, may reduce fertility. Alcoholism should be considered as drug dependency as well, above all if we look at the data: in 2003, only in Spain drunkenness caused 5,400 deaths. Then if alcohol and nicotine aren't as harmful as "hard drugs", how many more deaths should occur in order to make us realise the seriousness of this issue?

Secondly, lately the world lives terrified by the fear of a war in which nuclear weapons could be used. This seems to be more likely nowadays, since many countries, like Iran threaten to use their nuclear weapons. In fact, the president Ahmaminejad has announced that Iran will have finished its nuclear plan in 2007. Furthermore, recently the US Congress has voted in favour of allowing the export of civilian nuclear fuel and technology to India for the first time in 30 years. On the other hand, India will get access to US civil nuclear technology and fuel, in return for opening its civilian nuclear facilities for inspection. 

Some people would argue that nuclear energy is as valid as any other energy and it produces more electricity than anything else and generates less waste and less carbon monoxide. However, nuclear energy and nuclear weapons are two very different issues. Personally, I think that nuclear energy could be beneficial to our environment. As long as its being put to good use Nuclear energy might help to these countries that need to supply their population with electricity but don't have the necessary means and economic power to use another type of energy, like solar or hydraulic energy. The difference between this and the bad use of the nuclear energy lies in the fact that some people can use this to their advantage in order to make nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are made because as nuclear energy, they are made with a small amount of material and its effects over its target are devastating (we only need to remember the effect of the Atomic bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki).

The third and final topic I'm going to deal with is global warming. Global warming is the observed increase in the average temperature of the Earth's atmosphere and oceans in recent decades. This increasing of temperatures has been attributed to human activities such as the use of power plants and vehicles. In my opinion humans have contributed to the increase of global warming but there's also a contribution from the nature. According to Anthony D. Barnosky, a paleontologist from the University of California, the climate changes occur each year, each decade; each seven years a climate change takes place in Europe although it's a barely perceptible change and if we have a look on books about prehistory we can see that the Earth has suffered several climate changes. Furthermore, in recent years there has been a depletion of the hole in the ozone layer due to the measures that have been taken from the people.

To sum up, this paper has dealt with three worrying problems of our society that I consider that involve almost all the areas of our lives. I have focused on the consumption of drugs; the different kinds of drugs and the importance of consider alcohol and nicotine as hard drugs since they have very harmful effects on our organism as they can result in fatalities. To solve this problem or at least try to reduce it, the government should stimulate harder advertising campaigns against the excessive consumption of these dangerous substances. I have also focused in the threat of a nuclear attack from some countries and the hazard that would involve. There's nothing I can suggest as a solution because the problem is too complicated. To finalize, I have talked about the importance of global warming.



