
Nowadays the film industry and specially the discography industry seem to be affected by the downloads from the internet through the peer to peer programs. A peer to peer program is a free software, which allows internet users to share any kind of pc files, as could be software, music, books or films through the internet. In the last few weeks an internet user has been judged because he has downloaded 6.780 albums on mp3, and it could be considered a crime against the intellectual property. However, he has been absolved from this crime because the judge has considered that there was not profit-making in the accused behaviour. This trial has caused a hot debate in the last few days. In this essay I will try to point out the different arguments concerning the internet downloads.


In the first place, the internet users association maintains that the exchange of  peer to peer files is not a crime. According to this opinion, people can share some word, video or music files of their hard drivers without committing a crime. Nevertheless, internet users can only download files non-profit-making. For example, a user who downloads music from the internet with the purpose of selling it, could be punished by the law. The internet users association only defends the private use of the files, in other words the private copy. This means that a user can transform his original copies of books, music cds or videos in pc files and then he can share his pc files with other internet users, as a result a internet user can download any file from other internet users and they wouldn't be committing a crime. This appears to be a more convincing argument because the internet users association completely disagrees with the download files illegal business, but they defend the right to the private copy, as happened with the blank cassettes when everybody could share their music thought this medium, of course, in a less measure.    

On the other hand, the president of the "Sociedad General de Autores" (SGAE),  Eduardo Bautista, also known as Teddy Bautista,  argued in the last presentation of the SGAE memory that the government should be actively involved with the task of ending with the internet downloads, specially with the peer to peer software. Teddy Bautista pointed out that the download of music from internet is an illegal activity and these illegal downloads have reached the 270 millions, 90 millions more than last year. He maintained that this illegal downloads increase has directly affected the music companies and the artists, which have lost a lot of money because of the illegal internet activities. As a result the music sector is going through a bad patch. He suggested that the download of illegal copies between private individuals shouldn't be allowed by the telecommunication companies.  And to fight against these downloads, the SGAE has increased the blank cds canon also. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness. First, the last research has shown that the SGAE has increased their profits in the last years, and second some people would argue that if they don't have the right to make private copies, they shouldn't pay the canon.     

However, some people have expressed their disagreement with the SGAE, specially their disagreement with Teddy Bauitista's opinion. For example, Metabolik, a hackers' group, defended their right to download music and films from the internet last year.  They downloaded music from internet, specially Teddy Bautista's songs, in the street at the doors of the SGAE building in Bilbao. They wanted to show that to download music from internet is not illegal and, in addition, they believe that they have the right to share their music or video files with other internet users because they are paying the canon, which gives the right to make copies, when they buy a blank cd. What's more, Metabolik claims that when you are buying a blank cd to record your holidays, for example, you are paying to the SGAE and to other artist, as could be Ricky Martin, who have enough money yet because the prices of the original cds are terribly exaggerated. The main problem with this argument is that internet users don't have any right to download music or other files from the internet because this files are the job of many professionals who have the right to receive any remuneration for their work.    

It would appear that download music or films for nothing from internet could be unfair for the professionals of these sectors who don't receive any remuneration for their work. Some people would argue that if you are downloading songs or other files from the internet for free, you are committing a illegal activity, which besides has repercussions on the high prices of the original copies. As a result, many people feel that those who still buy original copies are paying for these illegal activities, which could be very unfair. In addition, some people would claim that if you will pay to download from internet the situation would be fine. For example, if you would have to pay less for downloading a cd from internet than buying it in a shop, many people still downloading music and the discography industry and the professionals won't be affect for the internet downloads. People could buy and burn the music they like most from internet without the necessity of going to the shop and even a low prices. Although this could be considered as a realistic perspective, most internet users will continue with the illegal downloads because free files is the main attraction of the internet downloads.               

In conclusion, we can see that there are three main arguments concerning the downloads from internet. Some of them deal with the right to make  private copies from  the originals and then share them through the medium of the internet. Other arguments don't see logical download files for nothing because illegal downloads could affect several industries. Finally, some arguments, specially the SGAE, feels that the illegal downloads from internet must be stopped and judged as other illegal activities. The more convincing arguments appear to be non-profit-making downloads It seem to be almost impossible to finish with the illegal downloads because a lot of people download music from internet for free, at their homes, offices and so on, but for that it is still  an activity that could end with several industries.          



