
Religion is one of the subjects of the obligatory education in Spain. In the lasts months there have been a hot debate about if should be a optional subject for those students who don't want to do religion in the secondary education. The current education law establishes study activities or an optional subject about the history of religions as an alternative for religion. However, the secular groups are fighting to erase religion from the hours of lesson because they want to break the agreement of the government with the Holy see to turn Spain to a true secular State. In my view there should be a religion or a history of religions subjects in the hours of lessons, as I will try to show in this essay.

In the first place, I think religion is one of the pillar of the our occidental culture. A good knowledge of religion is very useful for the humanistic preparation of any student. First, the majority of arts; as could be painting, architecture or sculpture; have  strong religious influences. For example, a student who stands in front of the striking altarpiece of the Old Salamanca Cathedral, and who has not been properly prepared in religion, won't be able to understand the meaning of this piece of art. He will only see a great Romanic altarpiece, but he will know nothing about the characters or the stories that represent the marvellous paintings of the 15th century, which are in this old cathedral. As a result, this student would have deficiencies in his educational formation. Second, literature or philosophy subjects do continuous religious references, if a student doesn't know the basic stories and principles of religion he would be lost in many aspects of this subjects. Also our language has incorporated some religious words and terms, which nowadays are common, as could be repent or sin, and any student would be able to understand its connotations. 

On the other hand, the president of the Ceapa ( "Confederación Laica de Padres") suggests that religion shouldn't be a school subject and the government should break the agreement with the Holy see so Spain will be a secular State, once and for all as is said in the Constitucion. This could mean that students who doesn't want to do religion could go home and they won't need to do any optional subjects, as history or religion or other study activities. Also this confederation agrees with a new proposal that suggests that religion can be chosen like an optional subject as could be computing, or the second foreign language, out of the hours of lesson. Even this confederation maintains that there should be other religions to chose, as could be Muslim. Nevertheless, my own view of this is that most of the students will prefer to go home instead of doing religion or any optional subject. As a result, they will have more time to play or maybe to study other important subjects as could be mathematics or physic. However, speaking personally, I feel students will lose an important part of their humanistic formation like the student of the cathedral's example.                        



In addiction, I could argue that the main problem is the way that religion is taught. Some people feel that religion class is only the study of the missal, the repetition of some common prayers like Our father, the live after death's belief and the study of the moral Christian values. But from my point of view the religion class consists in the study of the history of the Christian religion; because is the main occidental religion; or even the study of some relevant passages of the Bible.  What's more I feel that the Bible has important keys to understand our modern society , our art and our culture. Consequently, students could discover in the Holy Bible the deepest roots of our occidental culture as well as the source of the Christian faith.

In conclusion, this paper has focused on why class religion should be a school subject with respect to the religion's cultural values instead of the ethical or moral Christian value. Two main arguments again religion class have been covered: Spain is a Secular State therefore religion should be out the hours of lesson and the belief that religion is only a kind of excuse to teach Christian beliefs and the moral Christian values. However, I have argued that religion is very useful for the education of any students with respect to three main fields: art, language, and philosophy or literature. Also I have argued that the study of the Bible could be a source of useful knowledge, because a student could understand the roots of or society, our art and our culture. One possible solution might be to change the method that traditional education has followed to teach religion: the study of the missal and the Christian moral instead of the study of the history of religion and the study of the Bible from a social and cultural point of view. In general I think that students will have important deficiencies in their knowledge of the world if religion is out of hours of lesson.        

        
    
