Nowadays, air pollution is one of the leading environmental problems. Air pollution comes from many different sources, including factories, power plants, dry cleaners, cars, buses, trucks and even windblown dust and wildfires. Air pollution can  be harmful for the health of human beings, trees, lakes, crops, and animals, as well as causing damage to the ozone layer and buildings. Air pollution also is related to the global warming. It seems that the Earth's average temperature has increased notably in the last few decades which is the cause of the melting of the ice in the poles and so in consequence, of the rise of the sea level. As a result, air pollution has affected our whole environment and we hadn't been able to stop with the main sources of the harmful air pollutant. In this essay I will try to show three sources of air pollution, which I believe are the leading and the negative effects that they have caused in the public health and our environment.       

In the first place, I believe that power plants are one of the main sources of the air pollution. The most common power plant is the coal-burning power plant. Coal-burning power plants burn coal for the production of energy. The first negative effect of this activity, it seems to me, is the fine carbon soot particles which coal-burning power plants emit directly from their smokestacks. Some studies have shown that these carbon particles are polluting the air, and the exposure to such air pollutant is harmful to health and causes lung cancer, increases asthma attacks and even could cause death. Secondly, these power plants are the source of approximately one third of mercury pollution. I think that this is very alarming because according to a recent research mercury is a potent neurotoxicant which infers with brain development. In third place, I believe that power plants are very dangerous for our environment because they are one of the sources of carbon dioxide emissions. It seems that there has been an increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere the last hundred years and the carbon dioxide absorbs heat from Earth's surface, slowing the escape of heat from the Earth's surface to space, which is one of the environmental problems most debated in our days: the Greenhouse Effect.

On the other hand, some scientist suggest that the Earth will adapt to this climatic changes. One thought is that some plants will benefit from more carbon dioxide, making them more efficient growers. Another adaptation that may happen is a change in the Earth's cloud cover. A warmer climate may increase water evaporation and this would mean that vapour in the atmosphere could increase cloud cover, making less available to heat the Earth. In case this occurs, I believe the climatic change will happen anyway, and there are some critical evidences that suggest that the global warming is directly related with the carbon dioxide that is polluting the air. I tend to believe that one possible solution to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions might be burning the fewer amounts of fossil fuels, as is the coal. In other words we should change these fossil fuels for clean energy sources: the renewable energy. In my opinion, countries and organisations should promote the use of renewable energies sources, as could be wind, water or solar power, through taxes and subsides. 


In the second place, I tend to believe nuclear power plants are not exempt from the harmful emissions that are polluting the air. On the other hand, some people could argue that water vapour is the only significant emission from power plants. It seems that nuclear generation does not directly produce mercury, carbon dioxide or other pollutants which are associated with the combustion fossil fuels in the power plants and with the air pollution. This has led some environmental groups to show increased reliance on nuclear energy as a means to reduce the  greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to global warming. Nevertheless, I would argue that nuclear power plants are not exempt from carbon dioxide emissions, which are necessary to build power plants, to transport the fuel and to dismantle the power plant at he end of its life. In addition, speaking personally, I feel power plant is a pollutant, uneconomic, unsound and potentially dangerous energy source, especially compared with renewable energy.  

In the third place, I don't think that power plants and nuclear power plants are the only ones responsible of the harmful air pollutant. I tend to believe that driving a car is the most polluting act that a citizen commits every day. Many people go to their jobs, at the university, to do the shopping, to see her parents who live near their houses and so on by car. As a result, our cities have became factories of harmful air pollutant from the irresponsible use of vehicles burning fossil fuels. A single car's exhaust emits a lot of   particles and chemicals which are related directly with the air pollution, as could be carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide or sulphur dioxide. However, some people could argue that they need their cars because is the faster, more comfortable and practical way of transport. Nevertheless, my own view is that the indiscriminate use of cars has contributed to produce several environmental problems as could be global warning or air pollution, which are very harmful for the public health and our environment. In my opinion, some possible solutions could be to build more walking paths, bicycle routes and paths for small electric vehicles. In addition people have to become aware of the harmful effects of driving a car. People should use the public transport and the governments should improve the new ways of transport as could be the bicycle routes.  

So then, in this essay I have considered three leading sources of the harmful air pollution: the coal-burning power plants, nuclear power plants and the massive use of cars. In addition, I have tried to show some negative effects of the air pollution as could be the global warming, and some diseases related with air pollution as could be lung cancer, or asthma attacks. Finally, I have tried to give some brief solutions, for example, the use of renewable energy sources and the necessity of bicycle routs or the use of public transport. In conclusion I believe that  governments and citizens have to contribute to stop with air pollution and their main sources because the environment, and even our own health has been seriously damaged with these pollutant sources.                                              
