
Nowadays the United States has the highest percentage of deaths by shootings in comparison with other developed countries. On Tuesday, April, 1999 two students, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, killed 12 fellow students and a teacher, and also wounded 24 others before shooting themselves at Columbine High School in the United States. This massacre is considered to be the deadliest school shooting and the second deadliest attack on a school in United States history. The massacre provoked many different reactions about youth's violence and the private ownership of guns. On one hand, gothic culture, heavy metal music, youth's depression, violent films and violent video games were blamed for the school shooting but on the other hand, some people put the blame on the private ownership of guns and the gun culture. In this essay I'll try to show the different points of view as regards private ownership of guns in the United States.

To begin with, some people would argue that they have the right to own firearms in their houses because it is their duty as a citizens to protect their neighbourhoods and their families from the increased share of violence in the streets and the increased burglary in the United States. Charlton Heston, the president of the National Rifle Association, maintains that the private ownership of guns helps to reduce the share of violence in United States as well as be the best way to keep people's own safety against crime. For example, Charlton Heston maintains that many owners of guns have contributed  to save the lives of people who have been mugged in the streets and specially in their own houses and their shops. The National Rifle Association and people who are agree with the private ownership of guns don't hold guns responsible for school shootings, as Columbine High School massacre, and other acts of violence related with guns. However, they put the blame on the people's education about firearms, which is inadequate or even non-existent. Therefore, The National Rifle Association leaded by Charlton Heston proposes a good education about the use of  firearms in the many lectures, which Charlton Heston has been doing along United States, to contribute to reduce the longest share of violence in United States and to help people to exercise their right to own a gun for their own protection. The main problem with these arguments is that the evidences shows that many innocent people dies in shootings in the United States and therefore guns are also use to attack and not only to protect people.

However, many people believe that there should be a total ban on the private ownership of guns. Michael Moore's Bowling for Columbine, a documentary film, showed that the enormous amount of violence in United States could be directly linked with the private ownership of guns three years later of Columbine's massacre. First, Michael Moore feels that anybody can get a gun in United States, for example some banks give firearms when you are opening a saving account and the only requirement is to fill a brief form. As a result  some people might claim that a mentally unbalanced person could easily get a gun for violence purposes. Secondly, Michael Moore maintains that anybody can buy a lot of mmunition in any shop. To prove this argument, Michael Moore went a supermarket, where Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold bought the ammunition for Columbine's massacre, with two wounded of Columbine High School, and they bought all the ammunition of shop. Days later, these chain of supermarkets withdrew all ammunition of their stores. As a result, Michael Moore and some people could argue that all these facilities to get a firearm increase the violence and the deaths by shootings, as happened at Columbine, and in consequence there should be a total ban of private ownership of guns in United States. These appear to be the more convincing arguments, because if everybody can buy a gun and a lot of ammunition then also anybody can use  firearms to attack and not only to protect themselves.                

Finally, Some people believe that there should be hardest restrictions in the private ownership of guns, but not a total ban. First, some people maintains that there should be an exam, like the driving text, which could decide whose people can get a firearm and whose are not properly qualified to own a firearm. Second, some people feel that there should be a ammunition restriction to avoid massacres, as Columbine's massacre. As a result, people could not keep more than a load gun to protect themselves. Lastly, some people believe that firearms should be only keep in safe box to avoid that children can get it and use it, as happened at a nursery school in United States. Although these arguments seem to be rather convincing, they have certain weakness. It seems that a text don't ensure the correct use of firearms, as happens with the driving text, and in addition, a single bullet can kill a person therefore an ammunition restriction doesn't seem practical.    

In conclusion, we have seen three different points of view concerning private ownership of guns in the United States. The first maintains that the private ownership of guns is a right and is also a good way to reduce violence in the country, the second claims that the private ownership of guns is one of the leading sources of violence in the United States, because anybody can buy and use a gun, and the last point suggest that there should be some restrictions to own a firearm. Besides, we have seen that the most convincing argument is the total ban of private ownership of guns because if people can't buy a firearm they can't use it for violent acts. And also from this point of view a gun has only one purpose: kill your enemies, so it seems a bad way to keep the peace in a country.        






