         To begin, I'm going to do a definition of terrorism that I have found on internet more exactly on "wikipedia": Terrorism is a term used to describe violence or other harmful acts committed (or threatened) against civilians by groups or persons for political, nationalist, or religious goals. As a type of unconventional warfare, terrorism means to weaken or supplant existing political landscapes through capitulation, acquiescence, or radicalization, as opposed to subversion or direct military action.
          Later on, I'm going to do a definition of war found in the same space of internet: A war is a conflict between two or more groups that involve large numbers of individuals. Wars may be prosecuted simultaneously in one or more theatres of war. Within each theatre, there may be one or more consecutive military campaigns. Individual actions of war within a specific campaign are traditionally called battles, although this terminology is not always applied to contentions in modernity involving aircraft, missiles or bombs alone in the absence of ground troops or naval forces.

         These definitions corresponds to a neutral and a general idea, but in this world luckily or unluckily there a lot of people that think of different way, according always with their country or with their religions.
         To do this easier, I'm going to separate it on three groups: Firstly about the people that are in favour of terrorism, after the people who are against this, in the third position about terrorist instruments to killer.

         Like I have said the first point is the idea of terrorism is something good. This could seem just a problem of Islamic and east countries but this isn't like that. It is so simple: when we see on TV something about terrorism it refers to illegal acts from Islamic and east countries but as we have saw these last years the terrorism has increase on importance in Europe and United States of America. The most important terrorist organizations are: Al Qaeda, ETA, and some groups of East and North Europe (as IRA).
         These kinds of groups see on terrorist acts a way of revenge, revenge against the countries of exploit us and damage their families and recourses. This goes join together religious and political ideas. Religiously, they think that their god have and will give their a compensation if they do these acts. This suicidal idea is implant in the children since they are very young and begin to practise for it, but we have to know that no all the people of these countries are like that, because is so difficult think in our society that there are people that are in favour of terrorism because we know nothing about their education and their way of life, probably they only want independence and salvation.  
         
         Other point of view is the people (countries) that are against terrorism. This group is bigger. There are a lot of organizations against terrorism and in Europe, Asia, Africa, America, Oceania countries and some countries in the Far East  are against the terrorism too. These people don't see on this illegal acts the salvation and revenge, they see these acts as something horrible, unjustified, one way of killer innocent people to have more importance and have power. These people see their self as victims of a religion or join but really are the same that people that die for wars in the "enemy's countries". Sometimes, these people don't only accuse terrorist, but they accuse the government because do nothing to prevent it. All of this can produce in this people a feeling of insecurity and probably they have reasons to think so.
         Before finish, I would like to mention some ways that terrorist have to carry their acts out: the physical violence like kidnapping, torture or extrajudicial execution; some moral attacks like threats and social pressure, and the violence against private and public possessions through explosives and fire. In spite of this, the most used method of these terrorist groups is bombs detonation against military and civil target. Finally, although aren't so usual terrorist can threaten us with atomic and biological weapons.

         To conclude, possibly this issue isn't a social problem but cultural, religious and ideological problem. Each one see and interpret the problem to his own point of view and each one fight against he think offensive and illogical, although everybody think that  always pay who shouldn't.
         Now, from my point of view, I don't understand terrorism and terrorist because I think that are other ways as dialogue where nobody innocent die. I'm sure that always the guilty is government whose only purpose is gets the world authority although it looks an ancient and old idea.  



