

         There are a lot of important issues nowadays that are so relevant in our life. These controversial issues affect everyone and all countries in the world and usually there are relations between them. These problems have been produced and will be produced by humans, more exactly by our passivity and our avariciousness. All of this will produce our disappearance but we don't want to accept it and is evident that it gets worse. 

         I'm going to mention three of these problems: Terrorism, Poverty and Climatically Changes.


         The first problem is Terrorism. These six last years this issue has acquired a great protagonism since "11 S" in New York, and "11 M" in Madrid. Not only these terrorism acts are important, we have to see the Islamic and East countries where a lot of people die every day. My own opinion about that is that the guilty of it is the Government and their ways to try enrich their self. This causes wars between people that live in the same country, fights between countries who have nuclear and quimical bombs, and the most important to me: the death of civilian and innocent people, murders that I see unjustified and illogical; ¡¡WE HAVE TO STOP IT!!.
         

        The second problem is the Poverty. Is so evident that a lot of people die everyday because they haven't sufficient means to survive (they haven't food, drinkable water, hygiene, vaccines, etc). Generally these happen in the underdeveloped countries but United States and Europe - whose level of life is high - suffer these problems too. Usually the poverty is caused by wars, terrorism and generally because the important countries receive the debts of underdeveloped countries in exchange from protection or by means of natural resources. Like that, we can observe how the town is deceived and their own rulers do nothing to prevent it. Is not estrange see on TV that "Royals Families" spent a lot of money in Spain - or other countries - while their town live precariously. 



         Finally, I have choose as my third election the climatically changes. In this issue I'm going to separate it on two groups. The first group refers to natural disasters which are happening nowadays. We can see on TV volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes that kill million of people. These phenomenons can seem normal but we can deny that these last years these problems have increased and easily they can appear in countries without antecedents.
         The second group is the changes in the future. These are the ozone layer hole and his guilty: the pollution. All of this drives us to the smelt of North and South Pole. This happened because the world temperature has rise (the global warm) and the high of the seas increased and in the future could disappear the down zones of the earth, and we have the problems of floods and die drowned.
         My conclusion about it is so simple; we are the blames - the only blames of it - but it don't look important for us because there are still a lot of people that don't cooperate.



         In conclusion, I think that these issues are the most important nowadays. Other important idea that I have tried show is all of this happens for us, we are the blames and only we can change it, not find the total peace but yes help to happen it. Is so evident that some of these problems -like climatically changes- have not remedy but I will be so happy if someday I feel that the people get conscience about it, if the atomics arm disappear, if innocent people don't die without justified cause and if the governing don't lie us, and don't use the people and our natural resources to their benefit and enrichment. If this don't happen (very difficult) our world and the world of our predecessors will became and be the second Babel Tower.
 

           













