	From the terrorist attacks of 11th September 2001, the USA with more or less support of the Western World, have been developing a war against terrorism in the Mid-Arabian countries. This policy has arisen a lot of controversy and different opinions about whether it is right or not to fight against terrorism in this way. In this essay, I will try to analyse some different opinions concerning this issue, and I will expose a conclusion taking into account all these views. 

	On the one hand, we have people who are in favour of the war against terrorism and who think that the world is now a safer place. These people, whose main representative is George W. Bush, believe that we cannot remain crossed-arms in front of these attacks, which they believe to be against Democracy and Western civilization. From their point of view, our society must do everything in order to eradicate this menace, no matter if innocent people are killed. They also think that if we attack countries where terrorists come from, there won't be terrorist attacks anymore. Or, as the saying goes: If the dog is killed, rabies disappears. This opinion does not seem to be very logical, because it is proved that the more violence you generate the more violence you are going to receive. 

	On the other hand, we have people who are completely against the previous opinion, and therefore they think world is not a safer place but a more unsafe place as a result of this war against terrorism. They argue that this war is a circle that generates more and more violence and terrorism, because people feel attacked and many innocent lives are killed, so they want to take revenge. Moreover, the means used to fight terrorism in the Western countries -e. g., the huge security measures in airports- make common people feel much more insecure and annoyed: the atmosphere created in those places is war-like, with so many security guards and armed policemen. Another thing that increases the feeling of insecurity is the mass media, which do not help at all showing all the bombings and attacks that are taking place. 

	However, there are many people who believe in a mid-position. They argue that we actually have to do something to prevent terrorism, but not by any means and indiscriminately attacking every country that does not belong to our way of living. Some people claim that we have to trust our armies and investigation organisms. They say that, through researches and investigations, we could arrive to the root source of terrorism, and then attack it without killing innocent people. Some other people inside these mid-positions believe in non-violent means to finish with terrorism. They argue that terrorism is many times generated by situations of injustice or extreme poverty and, though this does not justify any killing, we have to help these countries instead of laying waste to them. 

	There is another point of view that I would like to analyse. That is the one that belongs to some post-modern flows of thought who believe that, in order to prevent terrorist attacks, we have to do what they want us to do. It seems that sometimes Spanish Government has this point of view, trying to establish conversations with terrorists and  removing the Spanish troops from Iraq because there were 200 people killed in Madrid (the 11th of March 2004). This opinion does not seem to be reasonable at all, because this way, there are many more possibilities of suffering another attack. Terrorists will feel their violence and their attacks are useful, because they have got what they wanted through these means. It is like children behaviour: if a child smacks another child in order to take a toy out of his hands, and the smacked child gives him the toy to prevent more hitting, the aggressor will learn that smacking is an easy and powerful way to get what you want, and so he will continue hitting and smacking. 

	To sum up, taking all the previous opinions into account, we can draw the conclusion that there is not a general feeling of more security in the world as a cause of the war against terrorism. Although there are some people who believe in it as an effective means to end up with terrorist attacks, it seems that the more sensible way to face this very difficult problem is to investigate about its origins and try to solve it from its origins.  
