
In the last months, in Spain, many people were asked about the most important social problems in our society. Some people regard the main social issue worrying is the terrorism; other people think that the problem is the drugs.
 However, some sociological investigations realized in Spain have demonstrated that 51% thinks that the unemployment is the worst problem, the next is the price of housing and the third important problem is the domestic problem.
 In this essay I intend to show, in my opinion, the reasons why theses socials issues are some of the most worrying in our days. 

 For my part, I believe that the unemployment is one of the most worrying issues in our days. Because if the mayority of Spanish people do not have an employment o they do not have a stable job, the Spanish couples will get awkwards for asking for a credit bank and can not agree to buy a flat. Nevertheless,  some people maintain that Spain has got reduced the level of unemployment 8.15% since Spain became a member of the European Union, and many of them do not understand why this theme continue preoccupying the Spanish. But I think this matter worry the people greatly because of the Mickey-mouse contracts that proliferate in all Spain. For example, in our country half the contracts are temporal as contrasted with the European mean of 15.3%.
 The problem is that, in my opinion, the politics solved the issue of unemployment but they have made other problem worse: The temporal contracts. These types of contracts have very few advantages for the employees but on the contrary offer lots of advantages for the businessmen. Because the temporal contracts do not force the businessmen to pay a large amount of money at social security for the employees and the short length of these contracts let them to do redeployment of labour when the firm need it. In this way, the businessmen get economic profits at the expense of bad working conditions for the workers. 

 In my opinion, other social important issue is the high price of housing for several reasons. First, the young couples can not leave the pattern's home because their salary is too cut and it does not let to ask for a credit bank to buy an apartment. Second, if many people invest the half of the salary in buying a dwelling they can not invest in other things such as the stock exchange or new technologies which can be good things for the development of Spanish economy. Also one of the most important reasons in my opinion is the property speculation very famous in our days. Because the sale of housing had fewer mediatings twenty years ago than in our days and the price of housing was an accessible thing for the majority of people. However, some people maintain that the real problem is into the mind of the Spanish. Because they only think of being owner of a flat and they do not bear in mind the other options. For example: in other Europeans countries the housing is more expensive than in Spain by this reason the mayority of people there live in homes for rent. But personally speaking, I believe that our country is different from other European countries so we live in a Constitutional monarchy and we have the right to have got a decent dwelling. 

 The third issue most important from my own view is the domestic violence towards the women. The murders of women increase very year and neither the new law about the theme nor the social assistance seem to solve this serious problem. All women have the same rights than the men and the women must be respected by the men. However, some men continue thinking that the women are inferior to the men because of the sexist culture which they were educated. But I think that everybody have to fight for the equality between sex and leave incorrect values that inhibit the freedom.
The real problem is that, in my opinion the Spanish men do not accept the new role of women in the present society. They continue having into their minds that the women have to do the housework and they must be at home with the children. But the place of women has changed in all aspects in twenty years. Nowadays. There are more women with studies than the men and the mayority of women think that is more important keep a good job than to be mother.
The fact that the role of women has changed has to be accepted by the men and in this way there could decrease the number deaths women. 

 To sum up, I consider these issues are the most worrying in our days. This essay has dealt with different aspects from these themes such as the temporal contracts in the employment, the price of housing in other Europeans countries or the role of women in our society. In my opinion, these issues will have to be treated by the politics seriously because these themes might continue and some day could not have solution.



