
     Nowadays the war against terrorism, especially in United States, is very common in Occidental countries. In the last five years from the disaster of 11-S, the president of United States has developed a new strategy against terrorism to create a safer world. However, some writers believe that all American actions have produced more terrorist outrages. As theses plans are laws that infringe the human rights and in this way they only lead to promote the hatred and the revenge towards the occidental society. In this essay I will show different opinions about the effect of the war against terrorism in the world.

    To begin with, there are those countries which defend the fight against terrorism. Most of them consider that they have a duty to protect their nation from possible terrorist attacks, so if they do not defend their nation, the number of innocent people could increase. George Bush, the president of United States, claims that the plans realized by his government are justified because they are carried out to promote the security in the world. Also he thinks his government use the patriot Act because it is the better way of defending his city of terrorist threats. However, some people and other occidentals countries have announced that they are in favour of the fight against the terrorism but they consider lots of American actions are illegal and it is incoherent something to promote the right to the life when they infringe the same right. This point seems to show unfair way of acting of United States with the others countries.  

   On the other hand, there are some opinions that maintain that the world is more dangerous than before because of the war against the terrorism. Many people believe that the preventive wars for protecting the city from terrorism produce new pretexts that the terrorist people use to plan new crimes. The investigative people about the terrorism, Augusto Zamora states that the American invasions have not improved the situation in those countries on the contrary, countries such as Afghanistan or Iraq show signs of wear from any point of view. As Zamora argues, some people might also think that the policy against terrorism of Bush has caused a rise of the prices of oil and it has destroyed the international juridical order in this way increasing world instability. 
 This argument seems to show the irresponsible actions are carried out by American government for his own benefit. United States do not bear in mind the universal consequences of his plan against terrorism in the rest of countries. These types of actions must question the place of United States in the world.

  There are other opinions regarding the war against the terrorism. There are people who think that the war against the terrorism does not serve to improve the world situation because the innocent people continue being assassinated by people with politics interests. These people think that world governors must investigate the way of preventing the violence but without violence. This argument seems to indicate that the universal governments have not got the solution to make a world more peaceful and safer. 

    In conclusion, we can see that there are many opinions both defending and condemning the war against terrorism. Some of them deal with the right to protect the nation from terrorist threat, other deal with the American error of fighting for the peace invading countries in the illegal way, and finally appears the argument that show that the war against terrorism do not serve and the governors must looking for a new strategy to promote a world more peaceful and safer. 
