



For decades every civillisation has always had their problems. Every year, the social issues that worry to the society change. However, there are some troubles that matter to everybody for years. In Spain, the main study that shows us the worries of the spaniards are the statistics of the National agency of investigation (CIS). This agency makes a study each year so we can know which problems distrurb us nowadays. The main conclusion of this statistics shows us that there is some issues that always worry us. These are unemployment, ETA terrorism and inmigration. But i think there is some other social issues very important like racism, environmental problems, housing problems...In this essay, i will show which are the most important issues in my opinion these days and why i think so.



Personally speaking, i believe that the most worrying problem in our society is unemployment, in young people mainly. The unemployment rate, in this moment in spain, is about 9.8% of the population in age of working,  what supposes that more than 2.000.000 people haven't got any salary. Many of this people are university students. People who are finishing their studies and who have a great knowledge about the career they chose, but when they look for a job, they need to have a lot of experience. So many of them have to work in jobs that have nothing in common with what they studied. It's normal that the owners of the biggest firms want the best workers, so a way to find a good job is by been the best,  the most brilliant student ,if you have the luck of making practises in an important firm  so you can stay there working. The other way to get a good job is by having postdegree or doctoral studies but you have to have money and time to do that. I think this is a worrying problem, because there are  students who finish their careers and find jobs non-related with their studies. The salaries are very low so they can't still growing up and become adults since they can't even buy or rent a house.



Another trouble that i feel in our present society is the ETA terrorism.The reason why i think this is a huge problem is that it is not only a political problem but a social problem because it interferes with the daily lives of many people in the Basque Country. For example, If you live in the basque contry you can't wear a t-shirt with the spanish flag or express your opinion about some political aspects because if you are heard by some people you may get into a big problem. That's what happened with many professors of the UPV (Universiity of the Basque Country) who finally had to abandon their towns or cities because of the threats of some ETA sympathizers. However, it is true that if we can solve the political problem of terrorism the social problems woild disappear but i think this is more complicated than what we think and for that ETA terrorism is at my top three of worrying  issues in the second place.



And the third problem that matters me is the inmigration. From my point of view, inmigration can be good if we control it. I mean,  inmigrants should only be allowed to come to spain if they have a work. This issue worries me because of the collateral problems it brings, like racism or discrimination. Nowadays, in Spain,  there are 3.500.00 inmigrants (8% of the total population). Some of them don't have a job and don't even want to have one so they become delinquents. This makes some people feel insecure or think all the inmigrants are the same so they become intolerants and racists. We can see that the attacks that inmigrants have received from groups of neo-nazis, which are becoming more and more popular lately,  have increased. Nevertheless, inmigration should be considered from two other points of view. Economically, while spanish people has only got one or two children, inmigrants usually have more. this helps our economy to keep growing and stops the aging of our society. And even more, culturally, inmigration can make us grow as people and learn costums from other countries. For that, i think it's good but what worries me is the fact that it isn't well controlled.



In conclusion, this essay has presented which are, as i see it, the most worrying issues in our present society: unemployment (in youngsters mainly), the social problems of ETA terrorism in the Basque Country and the problems that can be caused by inmigration. I feel that these will be the problems of our society for a long time if we don't try to solve them now because some of them are growing like unemployment and inmigration.
