

     The education in Spain is a subject that given a loto f play because for one people this system of education is great, but for other people is awful. The system of education in Spain is promoted by the gobernment and the education ministery.
     In that play that I have mencioned back there are a loto f players who have an important paper. In this aspect I have to mentioned the religión subject and the interest of the gobernment.
     About my point of view this two factors are the most important for the formation of the childrens in the school.

     Nowadays the education in Spain had changed  a lot since the beginning. Now there are meny subject that at first there wasn't such as technology and other who at the beginning was the most important Duch as religión, and now is starting to desapear in many schools. 
     In the new system of education there are differents nivels which are divides in five stages. Three of them are obligatories and the rest are optative.
     These five nevels are: infantil education who are divide in two cicles and each one have three couses; primary education, which have three cicles with two courses each one; and the secondary education that have two cicles and two courses each one. These three first nivels are obligatorie. The other which are optative are social garanty or formative cicles and bachillerato. It are divide in two courses and childrens can cose the subjects into a recomendate list. And then is the university. To course a degree we want to pass a previous exam which is called Selectividad.

     As I have already told in the back paragraph, there are subjects which are beginning to lost because the parents of the childrens don't want this subject for their childrens or because the gobernment improve the system and put some subjects in optative subjects. This is the case of religión.
     The subject of religión at the first of the system of education was one of the most important subjects because the people relieve in God and it was a demanded subject for all the parents. But now many people think that in religión subject only speak about christian religión and these people don't want that their childrens learn it.
     The gobernment intented improve this hard-foughty and in the new system of education, organizad a few years ago, the religión subject pass to be a optative subject. And with this propose the parents who want that their childrens course religión, will can do it, and the parent who don't want the religon subject, will can cose other new subject in a list.

     In other hand of this debate is the chuch. This asociation aren't agree with the gobernment, because the chuch think that some subject such as religión must be coursed compulsyment for all kind of students.
     The chuch argue that the students must course this subject because with them the childrens Hill can form with a model of man and woman. This model Hill be agree with the convictions and traditions of each family that want course religión.

     In other way, there are opinions for many taste. There are oarents who are agree with the spanish education system and there are other parents who think that the gobernment must change many things because their childrens don't learn nothing.
     Acording to the latest polls of Education Innovation Center the majority of the parents are agree with the teacher of their childrens. Aulthough it depends of hte educative nivel that the childrens are coursing.
     Finally, shile the parents think that the teacher of their childrens are good, the teachers aren't agree with the education that they transmit to the pupils. The teachers think that parents will help more them and involucrase more in it.

     To sum up, the spanish education is a difficult subject to speak, because each people have a different opinión. It depends about the thinking of each person. A person who believe in God, maybe like that their childrens course the religión asignature, but other people who don't believe in God  or don't like the religión, maybe don't want that their childrens course this asignature. 
     In my opinión the gobernment moves in favor of their interest. Now the people are refusing the religión and for this the asignature is an optative subject of the school. I think that in this case the gobernment are doing good, because each people must to have the liberty to choose their subject. I don't agree with the chuch that say that the religión subject must be obligatorie. 
     I think that now the education system is good, respect the asignatures that each childrens have to course, but some aspects such as the numbers of hours of each subjects coursed, will can improve.
