    Since a long time to nowadays the world had envolved a lot and had developed some good and bad aspects. This aspects are the worrying social issues. The most important social issues, in my opinion, are drugs and some illness such as cancer and AIDS. This social issues are provocating a deteriored of the world. This deteriored is caused by the multiples and unnecessary death, provocated by the factors I have already mencioned.

     First of all I have to say that in the world are producing a lot of deaths a consecuence of wars, fighters, etc. But one of the principal causes in our country is the AIDS. This illness destroy the immunity of the body and leave the person who suffer it without defences.
     Secondary the AIDS will be acquired by a lot of process. There are one process that is the most common. It consist in use an infected sirynge and share it with other persons. Other procces to contagious are do a piercing and tattoos.
     Over all this, the contagious can be prevented using the condom in the sexual relaions because this manner is the first consecuence of acquiration the AIDS.

     I speak about AIDS such as one of the most important causes of death in the world but I have to speak about the horrible illness such cancer too. Firstly I have to said that cancer is an illness that provocate a ad multiplication of the cells. This illness is very serious and could provocate the death.
     On second place, cancer can be an hereditary illness and it can be provocated by quimic sustancies, raditacion, infeccion and virus too.
     Previosly I had said that cancer could be a mortal illness, but it can prevented with a good diet, not smoking and don't drinking a lot of alcoholic drinks.

     But all of the causes of death in the world not only are provocated for an illness, but drugs form the other biggest conjunt. To beginig the drugs are substances who provocate dependence in the person who take it. This dependence can be physical and phycoloal with some drugs such as alcohol. And only phycological with some drugs such as hachis and marihuana.
     In addition of these, drugs can cause some effects. The most normal effects are hallucinations, stimulation with drugs such as cocaine and narcotics effects, which are capace to sleep a person.
     Other negative consecuence about drugs are the social factors such as the conflics with other persons when they are drugers; the economic factors, because they haven't money to paid and the y have debts and they organized groups who attent to the rest of the people; and to finish the legal factors such as the abuse of drugs which aren't allowed. 

     In conclusion the world are become crazy for moments. Each time there are  more people with AIDS and for it the dies. Each time there are more people who consume drugs and each time there are more death persons a consecuence of these terrible illness that is the cancer. In this essay I want to reflect the importance about a good, healthy and cuidated live. With this little advice, you won't be contagious with all the social issues that in my point of view are the most dangerous. The consecuency about a healthy live, without drugs and more prevencion, means a lot of years of live more.
     In my opinion the principal solution for the drugs are in the education who each person received in their infance. Aulthought a possible solution for it could be that the government legalized the drugs. With this measure I think that the consume of drugs stops, because many people who consume drugs doing it because is a prohibited pleasure. About AIDS w have to use the condom in our sex relations and we have to have precaution when we do a piercing and a tattoo. We have to go to a specializated shops. And finally the cancer, who haven't got any solution because the only solution for it is create a vaccine and for this we have already wait a little of time. But my advice is that we have to protect about the sun with creams, hats.... And we have to protect to the radiations and we have to have  a good live too, and this reduce our posibilites to suffer cancer in the future.
    







