

For many years there have always been all kind of problems. Since little hold-ups to murders where many people die. A lot of studies have demonstrated that these problems don't stop, but are increasing. In Spain there are, specially, three social problems: terrorism, inmigration and poverty. In this essay I'm going to talk about these problems and how they affect to the society.

The first problem, the terrorism, has been increasing in our lives, although politicians have reached in agreement with some terrorist groups. The main terrorist group is called E.T.A. but in last years another terrorist group, called Al Qaeda, has murdered a lot of people in the famous attempt in Madrid in 2004.Terrorism makes that our society live in a insecure way, worrying about their lives and walking on the streets thinking they are going to be killed. Some people, however, trust in the police and feel safe when they break up these gangs. But there are still many of these gangs commiting crimes and avoiding the police and the justice. But the worst of all is that if a murderer is caught by the police he goes to prison and he only stay there for some years, even for some months, when he wouldn't have to go out of prison in a long time. It is checked that most of the murderers that go out of prison commit the same delits again. Besides of all this, terrorism has many consequences, for example, inmigration.

Inmigration makes many people inmigrate to other countries or cities escaping of terrorim. Most of people that emigrate go from one country to another one looking for a better life, a good job to survive or a house where they can live. The majority of the emigrants leave their families in their country and try to send them money that they have earned working in the new country. That makes the wealth of the origin country decrease and consistently the country become poorer. As their families notice that in the other country the life seems easier they decide to come too, and that's the reason why so many people emigrate. For example, millions of people have arrived to Spain in only a few years and has caused problems like the rejection or the racism to other cultures. The fact they want to go to other country means that their country is poor and they don't have resorts to live in a good conditions. And these unequals in our time is not a good ring. Inmigration makes that some countries are more populated than other and with this that poverty appears.

There are hundred of millions of people in the earth. Of them, almost forty per cent are poor or simply they don't have a place where live or sleep. They usually sleep between cardboards on the streets with any temperature. In the poorest countries many children, younger than five years, are working in the countryside for fourteen hours. They wake up very early and when they arrive at home, they don't have anything to eat. Besides, they can make ill easily because there aren't any kind of public health. Only people from other countries that go there with ONGs. If it exists any advantages of poverty it would be for rich people that could think the money is just for them. But this is a selfish thought that nobody would have.

To sum up, in an alleged world there are still a lot of problems that we should to avoid because their effects, as I have mentioned before, are very serious. Luckily, all these problems in Spain are treated better than in other places, so the effect on the people is less important. That's the reason why we don't realise of the problems and we don't do anything to avoid them. But if each one of us help a bit, these problems wouldn't be a problem.



