Since civilisation began terrorism has always been in the mind of many people, as a way in which people are killed or injured. Because of this, almost every people in the world have tried to stop it of many sistems, like pursuading deeply these kind of people that only tries to hurt people's feelings.  As a consequence of this fight against terrorism some different opinions have been created: people who is in favour, people who is against it and people who don't think neither a thing nor the other. In this essay I'm going to explain and analyse these different opinions.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of a safer world as result of this war against terrorism. A method of fight against it makes the number of effective police are increased, so security is increased too. Terrorist would think twice before committing a crime or a robbery if they know any police can be near and, therefore, catch him. However, to be police would be a dangerous job, because of this fight against terrorism so many people would avoid this job, or even refused this idea. It would be like as a contradiction in which people needs police but nobody wants to work as a police.

Secondly, many people can argue that the world has not suffered a better change as a result of the war against terrorism. Simply, the world is the same. The goverment has increased the number of police and the safety cameras but the terrorists have increased too, so there is a balance between security and terrorism. For these people the world will not change, that it is to say, in spite of the increase on the effective policemen there will be terrorists group that commit attacks against the society, as for example, the terrorist group in Spain called E.T.A, that has always attack against Spanish people. These arguments are strong but it can be argued that if police are not increased the terrorist will have easier to attack and to plan their crimes so the world would be more dangerous.

Of course, some people argue that the world is not safer because of this war against terrorism. These people defend this idea because they think thay if you fight against terrorists they would be angrier and they probably take revenge and make more injure towards innocent people if, for example, one of their members is killed or captured. This happened on September 11 2001 in New York city when terrorist group, Al Qaeda, attack the most important towers of this city. A lot of people died. But this is not the only one. There have been anothers attacks like the explosion of some trains in Madrid in 2004. For this reason, many people think the terrorism will not stop and the probably is smaller if terrorists take revenge against police's actions. But if nobody tries to stop terrorism, we will not have a safe place in many time and almost every people would like not to worry about terrorism and live in peace.

There could be another group of people that are against a safer world. These people, above all, are the victims of the terrorism - people who has lost any family or friend in any illegal act- and they have created asociations to get the attention of the goverment. They usually do manifestacions and ask for justice. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, peace is not reached by doing manifestacions, so we all should join ourselves in this fight against terrorism.

So then, there are many arguments about if the world is a safer world since we try to stop terrorism. The main argument in favour is from whose people that think if there are more people fighting again and again against terrorist it will be a moment when they will stop. Secondly, the neutral opinion of whose that think the world is not safer but without saying it is safer. They probably think the police gives good results but not enough, so it would have to improve. Finally, there are people who think the world is not safer because many attacks can be seen in our cities and the feel in danger. On balance, society needs police to feel safer but it could be more effective and not to let the terrorists be angry by giving false steps.


