51% of Madrilians believe that one of the main disadvantages of living in Madrid is the traffic congestion in the city centre. Citizens who have filled out a questionnaire have expressed concern about the health problems that may arise due to pollution and noise from excessive traffic. In my opinion, there are some possible solutions that could be carried out to solve the problem or, at least, reduce them. Some are more controversial than others, but I believe they will improve our overall quality of life.

The first solution that I think will be the best is that public transportation should be free for some people, such as students, senior citizens, and the unemployed. This method will promote public transport and will make some people think twice about taking their car. This may be considered bad, because if transportation is free, the service could become precarious. However, I think that by doing this many traffic problems would be solved and, at the same time, we will be helping to ease financial concerns among families. The city might have to raise taxes to pay for this, but a better transportation system means that an ordinary person might not have to buy a car which would help them save money in the long run.

Another possible solution would be to make people pay a small fee to access the city centre with their cars. I believe that this will make people consider using public transportation.  The idea would be to use this money to improve bus and Metro services. This, however, will create some tension, because people will be reluctant to pay. In my opinion people would use public transportation to move around the centre; as the service gets better, more and more people would use it.

The most restrictive solution I have considered is to create a system of taking turns, depending on the number of the licence plate. Even days, for example, would be for even licence plate numbers and the next day would be for the odd ones. Of course the freight vehicles would have a special permit just like taxis and other public transport vehicles. Nevertheless a problem for this is that the city would probably have to hire more policemen or traffic regulators to keep track of whether people driving around have an even or odd licence plate. Thus the city would spend more money, leading to an increase in the aforementioned traffic fees and taxes and also people will be reluctant to plan their outings around what days they are able to drive.


There are many solutions to Madrid's traffic problems, but some of them would not be as readily accepted by the citizens.  People will be reluctant to pay fees or even follow a simple regulation such as not driving on an even day when their licence plate is odd.  However, due to the health and environmental problems that will arise if this problem is not fixed, I believe that the city should make more of an effort to reduce traffic.  The benefits of spending a little money now to reduce traffic will be made apparent in future years when we see the overall health and standard of living of the city rise.












