One of the largest problems of the world nowadays is the terrorism and the fear it creates in the citizens since it threatens the balance of a state, and the security of the population. This is what show lots of statistics all over the world, where almost every country points terrorism as one of the ten firs problems. This is a difficult topic, because there are lots of international relationships, governments interests and a large historical context that makes each act of terrorism different.
There are some opinions for and against the fight against terrorism, ones believe that is a duty of free nations to protect their citizens at all costs, going to war and prosecuting them wherever they are; others think that fighting against terrorism is another way of terrorism, because there are almost always innocent people involved, and that it creates more danger to the countries because of the possible revenge of terrorists; some others try to balance both actions, the fight and the protection.

On one hand, the nations that fight against terrorists with wars, argue that if they do not do it, the terrorist will probably try to do more and ore damage in the society, and the nation will probably have to access their requests. Normally, the terrorists ask the attacked nation to change in some way his exterior politic, the economic system, or anything they just consider inappropriate for their culture. As this is impossible to do, because any democratic nation negotiates in this terms, the only possible answer the nations which defend this viewpoint can give is the suppression of the problem. We could summarize this opinion with the sentence "the aims justifies the mens". This seems as an opinion formulated just to try to convince people, because it can not be completely proved, and it is usually associated with lots of power abuses aimed to end with terrorism (and sometimes to other issues) that distorts the real objective of that war and it does the opposite to get a safer world to live in.

Another point of view argues that the terrorism can not be stopped with more violence. This is, usually, the opinion of some groups and sectors of the governments that follow the firs idea. They normally try to point out that the war is another way of terrorism, as it inevitably entails the lost os innocent civil human lives; the "hidden" objectives that the government wants to reach (that depend on the historical context we mentioned) and the violations of international laws as a result of the power abuses carried out. Although this viewpoint appears to be more reasonable, it has certain weaknesses, because it does not propose a solution, it just points out the fault of the other opinion and does nothing to solve the problem.

The last opinion took into account is the one of those who believe there is a middle point between the others. It is argued that nations can chase terrorist without starting a war against them, the solution should be, for them, the international collaboration to identify and arrest the terrorist. This argument seems to make sense, but it is more utopian than anything, because it does not mention the interests that a war has associated and would be difficult to put into practice.

As a conclusion of all this viewspoint we could say something we already knew: this is a very difficult issue, because if we want to solve a problem we will have to face someone, and almost every time it has unexpected consequences that can create polemic situations and even increase the problem we were trying to solve. We have also seen how violence and war against the terrorism just creates unsafe, so it seems not to be the way to make this a better place to live.














