              With the approval on 4 October 1990 of the Organic Law of General arrangement of the Educational System (LOGSE), there interfered the reform of the educational system, known like "The Reform". There are many different opinions about this new educational plan that Government created sixteen years ago. However, the opinions about the law and de current system are clearly against by educators, but exists other groups of people who consider that the law give many benefits to pupils who have learning problems and want to quit their studies. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments that people use concerning Spanish education system.

Some people argue that the protection of the minor rights, the absence of repression and sanction, it does that students don not assume the sense of the responsibility and the duty, having a trend to anarchy and egoism. Some studies say than this situation can be seen in lots of Spain classrooms, where the teacher has lost considerably the control in the scale teacher-pupil. But in the other hand, some people would claim  that we have to bear in mind that the minor rights let students do not be afraid of teachers like they used to, and this way do not allow  teachers have so much power on them, creating a relaxed environment conceived for the learning. Although these arguments are not strong enough to explain why the Spanish education system is gets worst year by year.  

It could be said that the bad organization of our educational system has caused the phenomenon of the professorship educational disability, fact that did not happened in he past. The veracity of this phenomenon meets reflected in that we have passed to a model of reversed pyramid of authority, in which the school mass exceeds the criteria of objective intervention by educators.

On the other hand, some people point out that the current educational system does not press minimally to pupils. The majority of them is not going to study for their account like claims. A child wants to amuse not learn so the State produces uncultivated adults. There are some different points of view above this idea. First, it could be said that some students need to be motivated and that our methods help them thanks to the creation of amuse subjects like technology or computer science. Second, another idea is that most people feel that students use these subjects as free time or playtime ones, doing in the majority of the cases that the outstanding pupil loses his time. This argument is rather persuasive than the first one, because it is known the wrong use that teenagers do of the above mentioned classes, and that these subjects do not help to study and to be more concentrated in the strong subjects.

Finally, it could be claim that in Spanish educational system increases the age of obligatory education as a measure to avoid the strike. Some of evidence shows that rising the age of obligatory education from fourteen years to sixteen, the State removed himself at one stroke to a great sector of population, and allowing students to repeat course after course, they will continue without forming a part of the active population, and therefore are fewer numbers in the queue of the strike. Also, it is apparently true that the students, who quit their studies at the end of E.S.O, star working with a minimums cultural level. 


So then, there are many arguments concerning the Spanish education system. The many arguments in favour are the fact that students are more relaxed in classrooms (not afraid), that the new subjects let pupils to be motivated in their studies and that students who finish the Secondary Obligatory Education, are more prepared than the other who quit sixteen years before. On the other hand, there are many people who think that the students are rude because of the protection of minor rights, that the system has created the educational disability phenomenon, and even that current system does not press students and finally, that the educational system was made has a measure to avoid the strike. On balance, the State should support certain aspects of what they present actually, but intensifying the rights of the educators not so much as those of the pupils. It may be positive that teachers could be supported for the paternal figures and establish a criteria of education in which the pupil admits a responsibility and seriousness according to his age.  






