      Traffic is a really serious problem in Madrid. In last few years, the traffic problem has got worst and it has suffered a huge increase. In this essay, I will talk about how to reduce traffic in Madrid giving some solutions that could help the environment and the health of the society.

 It seems that many people use their cars for every move the make when it is not always necessary; of these, shopping is a usually one. To avoid cloggings and agglomerations in the zones near to malls, I propose to motivate shopping by internet. I feel that it is a good idea because someone can carry what you buy to your home, without having to move and realizing the purchase in a fast, comfortable and easy way. Some people may also say that this way is not 100% safe, and that something could not arrive in perfect conditions. In my opinion, do shopping by internet is not risked because companies assure what you buy and even, they return your money if you are not agree with the service.

 Another way to reduce traffic problem, is to create sophisticated systems that provide alternative routes to us (both public transport as well as in the private one), to optimize the tours, or to tell us about traffic conditions, for example by the mobile telephone (which can warn us about works, traffic and accidents). However, some people will argue that these technological ideas are very expensive and not for the scope of all the pockets. Administration might be prepared to carry out technical solutions that allow them to have the information in real time. Personally speaking, if an economic aid was given for these new technologies, it will arise better ways and that will carry in      to a minor congestion of the traffic, less time of permanency in road and to an immediate reduction of pollutant gases. We will be spending to earn in future. 

Third, one of the most influential mean of communication in our society is the TV, and the creation of an exclusive 24 hour traffic channel will be a good way of having informed all the people who went to move. It could be said that this measure won't be really effective when you were out home but, nevertheless, I feel that traffic channel will help you to program and planning your trip before going out, and if you are already on the road, you can still use the radio.

 The work places have changed very much in this last century in consequence of the technological advance, without need to use other tool that a computer. That is the reason with it could be reduce a great number of vehicles: fomenting the distantly work. The worker can do his job at home and he does not have to move from there. However, it could be said that it is completely necessary that bosses have a physical presence of the worker, because some of them think that if workers are not in an office they are not doing a good job. I suggest the idea of promote the video calls in which bosses could have their workers controlled in every moment. This will help a lot to reduce the tedious morning traffic jams.

 Finally, I strongly believe that to achieve all of these solutions, the State should give a low economic compensation to everyone who uses the most highly number of times the public transport, encouraging people to leave the car at home and helping Madrid to be a nicer and relaxing city than it seems right now.
