       Marihuana consumption is spreading out more and more among young people and the  average of the those teenagers to start consuming it has been reduced to 14 years old. There  exist associations that defend the legalization of this sweet drug in the same way that tobacco or  alcohol are legal in our society. Young people who consumes marihuana are worrying parents  and edicatives, mainly because it usually goes linked to alcohol cosumption.       The way as we found it in any manual is this: marihuana is a psicotropic plant that in little  doses can produce sedation, a certain level of euphoria and little alterations on spatial and  temporal perception, and ,in bigger doses, it can produce hallucinations. The general  consumption generates psychic dependence but not physical or abstinence syndrome. On this  definition of the drug, it is very clear a mention of its effects in function of the quantity  consumed. On little doses it can be considerate a more or less harmless tranquillizer whereas it's  said how dangerous can it be on bigger doses because of the lack of control the person could be  involved in by having that hallucinations. What it's worth to have in mind is the warning about  the psychological dependence, what will keep the consume up until death.       Recent studies demostrate that marihuana has beneficial effects on some diseases  treatment such as multiple sclerosis, or in the agressive treatments with chemotherapy on cancer  cases, producing painkilling effects and avoiding the vomits and the hard unwell. Following this  studies, therapeutic effects of marihuana are well checked, what has driven some countries to  legalize it on treatments of involved patients. This gives, on one side, a worth to the drug for  having a social function to carry out but, on the other side is the contradiction with its illegality,  because many patients are obligated to get it on black market when they don't have fast access  to medicins made with the plant.       Many people claim that legalization of marihuana is dangerous because it would increase  the indiscriminate consumption, whereas pro-legalization asociations defend that it would avoid  the product adulteration, making it then less harmful for consumers and it wouldn't be so much  consumed than now. On this sense, there exists in fact two examples that evaluate the thesis  which defends the legalization. On one hand there is the alcohol: during the years while it was  forbbiden, it didn't dicrease the consumption and it inceased indeed the illegal traffic and the  criminality asociated to it. On the other hand, legalization of marihuana consumption has been  already achieved in countries like Holland and it's demostrated that it hasn't increased or  dicreased the number of the consumers but it has finished with illegal traffic and the  adulteration.       Drugs consumption has been part of the society all along the history and there has been  periods in which it was more accepted than in anothers. Marihuana, being apart from those  which are called "hard drugs", has possibles effects on its therapeutical use and, in any case, is  less harmful than many other drugs, including probably the legal ones such as the tobacco or the  alcohol.       Occidental societies are worried about teenagers consuming drugs but at the same time  they are starting to asume that prohibition is not the solution.       What is true, is that, according to many pasychologists, the use of drugs is so widespread  among young people that, no matter how absurd could it seems, a teenager who doesn't ever  make use of any drug (tobacco alcohol, cannabis, etc) is who isn't perfectly integrated in his/her  social group, and that is the main problem.               
