
Education has become one of the most important pillars in Spain and concerns politicians and the most of the people in our country. In Spain the educational system is divided on four parts depending on the age: "Infantil", "Primaria", "Secundaria" and "Bachillerato"; the first three are compulsory until sixteen years old then the student can start to work or follow studying. The problem is some social sectors are complaining because they think that education given until that age is not enough to face up a job. This situation has been face up in England where the studies will be prolonged to 18 years old. In this essay I intend to argue, in my view, obligatory education should be up to 18 years and some of the reasons why I think it should.

Firstly, I think that studying compulsory till 18 years should increase the guarantees of a better-paid job. Studying till age of majority (either Bachillerato or FP) for two years before searching a job is, personally speaking, a good way to fight against precarious employment because the student have more knowledge and experience to work. However, some people would think that starting working at 16 would give economic independence, although employers could take advantage to pay them less and it would be lower. For example, a boy who started to work at sixteen in a carpenter's workshop without any experience would be paid less than other who has been having practices for two years in FP.

Secondly, obligatory education till 18 years seems to me a good way to face the problem of the young people who neither are in the school or university nor are working or doing training courses. Those people are a burden on their families because the parents are who will have to support them economicly in the close future due they do not have any job. So, they will have to make any course in a compulsory way. However, I know there are a lot of people who say that if a student quit school when she/he is 16 and she/he starts to work, she/he will get money to help its family earlier. But, it appears to me that she/he will have money to be used as a help but will not earn enough money to afford an own house or its own necessities; so, if she/he continues studying, she/he will get more practice and studies and will be able to manage better jobs.

Finally, some people believe that making the education obligatory reduces the students' freedom because it does not let them choose by themselves. But I believe that people at those ages do not know what they want exactly or what it's best for them. Sixteen years old most of the times is not enough to make a good choice and because of that there are a lot of people who do courses like CCC to prepare to university or get school-leaving certificate owed companies ask for them.

In conclusion, in this essay I have shown several reasons why I believe obligatory education should be prolonged till eighteen years old such as a way to end with precarious employment, with a young sector that might become a social problem and a foresight to not regret in the future the lack of education. Considering these points, I feel that the education given to sixteen year students is not enough to face up the real world and a real job; so, I do believe that the education must be improved either making obligatory the education till eighteen years old or improving the education until sixteen years old. 
