   Traffic in Madrid has became one of the main problems to solve, 
However one solution to this problem has been thought for too much time with no 100% good and efficient results.
This essay is going to show some possible solution that I personally feel may help to solve
the traffic problem in Madrid , one of the European city with more traffic congestion.

First of all I would say that, If no one does nothing, traffic problem would be the main problem of Madrid , not only because the acoustic contamination or the the air pollution . The citizen would suffer this problem more than anyone; they have to suffer it everyday
That is the reason of so many stress problem in people, the health minister have done many studies about this thinking that traffic pollution and traffic congestion in towns would be the reason because a lot of people were starting to go to specialist or taking medicines like pills.

So, cording to that mention before, we see that it's not a small problem or something that must be pass, it's for many cities one of the strategic system of convince people in elections or to improve some character, like it said Gallardon is doing with our city, because of that many people have call him ''The Cesar of Madrid' but, according to the title , I will show the methods , the 2 general methods that Madrid use to solve thus problem that is traffic congestion , have the typical methods that are taken by the towns in normal situation: like limit parking places. (in case of Madrid ), that we can see every day , if you look to the ground , you would see probably the blue or green lines. Another typical solution is improving roads, so that traffic would move faster, but, everyday we see in our capital , how a lot of cars are stopped in roads because this.

In the other hand, we have some examples of Europeans cities that are starting to improve new methods as ban private cars from city centres, ( in London )solving the agglomerations that very frequently the city centre or critical points suffer.
We can see in this city too, how the government improve the money given to the efficient public transport this cause that lot of citizen think before taking their private cars. so , they will take the public transport reducing the amount of pollution crated by private cars, and reducing the agglomeration in those critical points.

In the case of Madrid , no efficient solution has been taken by the government, they say that the M-30 and M-40 have been built to solve this problem, but the expert said that this highways only take 15% and 20% of the total diary car traffic, on the other hand, there are some people that said that these highways cause more traffic in case of reducing it, because the ways out of them are or bad built or not so big.

In this essay we have seen the traffic problems in cities specially the city of Madrid, how this city tries to solve the problem with normal methods and how it would have to try to look or another Europeans cities that have better solutions to that problems. on the other hand we have seen how the 2 principals highways not help to solve this situation therefore it hurt it. I can't recommend nothing because I am only 1 person , but in general with more opinions of other people I think Madrid only increase the subway transport and the other public transport
are abandoned, the prediction for the future world be that Madrid would have more and more pollution every day, because government don't start a useful and totally efficient solution.


