Since abortion became legal, it has been a very controversial issue. Everyone has got an opinion on it; it is a theme which doesn't seem to leave anyone indifferent. The artificial abortion occurs when the gestating baby's parents decide they don't want to have it, that they prefer it not to be born. Along the history of the social acceptance of abortion, there have been many strong opinions about it, mainly supported by the church, some governments and of course society. These are the three main viewpoints on abortion which I am going to analyse in this essay.

To begin with, there are several arguments against abortion, supported mainly by the church and other religious institutions. They claim that a baby, of any age or weeks of gestation is already a life, therefore it shouldn't be killed, because it is alive. The support for this argument is obviously religious, because they argue that it is not men's duty to deprive someone from his/her own life, but God's. Many actions in many countries have been carried out by religious institutions, asking the government to ban abortion, or at least to make it more difficult for parents to abort: They want to make the time for abortion shorter (less weeks of margin). This point of view isn't only shared among religious people, but it is also shared among the more conservative fraction of population, which isn't small, so their opinion is loud in our society nowadays.

Some arguments in favour of abortion are maintained, mostly, by the left-wing government and political parties and by the most liberal fraction of society. On their behalf, they claim that it is the parent's responsibility to decide if they want to carry on with the pregnancy or not. It is them who have in fact created the baby, therefore it is no-one's decision but theirs to make. Not everyone who is in favour of abortion have the same opinion on it: some are more radical than others. A fraction of them think that it is correct to undertake an abortion at any point of the pregnancy (making sure the mother isn't in danger), and others think abortion should only be possible up to about the fourteenth or sixteenth week of pregnancy. Opposing to this point of view over abortion, many people have made allusion to the right every human being has got to life, arguing that with abortion, parents would be denying this right to their unborn child.

There are other arguments regarding abortion which depend on the specific conditions of each specific situation. This viewpoint is supported mainly by the rest of the society, who proclaim themselves to be neither liberal nor conservative, but neutral. They argue that many factors have to be taken into consideration, such as the parent's ages, their psychological and physical conditions, etc. For example if the child's mother is so young that her physical integrity will be in danger during the delivery or some time before it, their answer to his is to carry on with the abortion. Another example which people with this viewpoint give is the fact that in many places, many girls are raped, so therefore, they propose as most reasonable answer that the mothers are or will be psychologically affected by this; the most recommendable option is to undertake an abortion.

In conclusion, it is obvious that there are many viewpoints concerning the complicated theme of abortion: some condemn it, others are in favour of it and others, are neutral and take into account the personal circumstances of each person who encounters this difficult decision. Concerning all of the three viewpoints presented in this paper, it is important to underline that nowadays, there are some established laws concerning abortion. If these laws are studied, it is obvious that they have been made so that each individual, respecting some pre-established broad margins, does whatever is more in accordance to his or her moral
