One of the main problems of our actual society seems to be the education. The parents want the best education to their children and each government proposes different ways to carry on with this. Here in Spain we have obligatory classes untill the students are sixteen years old, enough to have a proper education, some people may say. But, is our education system the best to the students? From my point of view, it could be better. In this essay we are going to show if this is better system or not and we are going to give some information that may explain why the obligatory education should be up to 18 years.

The first thing of the reasons why I think the students should keep on taking classes till the eighteen is because, so that, they can be more prepared and they can improve their knowledges and their studies.  On the other hand, some people may say that they can be prepared with the "E.S.O.", that consist of four courses that teach the students basically and they can choose to do the Bachillerato or to take Professional Formation after that. However, I consider these classes are not enough, because they are really basic and with two more courses the students can learn more things and be prepared to decide what to do next.

Another reason can be the purpose of reducing the vandalism. If young people is not occupied in going to class, they can fall into problems like taking drugs, drinking alcohol, but, the worst of all, commiting crimes. In despite of this, parents probably say that they have their sons and daughters controled and there is no need to worry because they know what their children are doing, but this, sometimes, is not true. Statistics done by "El Refugio" reveal that in the 2004 the crimes commited by people under age were 4634, a worrying study that make us see that, in many ocassions, we are not able to control totally our sons. 

Finally, I personally think that they can find a better job if they carry on with their studies.  If they are more prepared and concentrated in their studies, they can find a job avaliable and proper to their needs. So that, they will be occupied, they will learn more, and this will make them responsible and mature people. Of course, they can continue with further studies more specified, but, for those who want to take part into the working group, it will be easier to them to find a job according to their needs and knowledges.

Nevertheless, many people think that is not necessary to studie two years more to be prepared. Many young people start working being sixteen or seventeen years old, and some of them work in the familiar business, so they can learn what to do and how of their family. But, on the other hand, recent studies done by the National Statistic Institute show us that there are 392557 people of sixteen and seventeen years old working (what suposes the 13.9 per cent of the total poblation), and, comparing to this, only 181755 people of eighteen years old work nowadays (the 6.4 per cent of the total poblation). Despite of the majority sixteen years old working class, they have jobs with bad salaries and sometimes, poorer conditions. The reason is because they are less prepared and they only can find less specific jobs because of their ages.  So, with more education, they would be able to work in a better job.

To sum up, I think that taking obligatory education untill the eighteen is a good messure because of the reasons given in this essay: They can be more prepared to continue with their studies or take part into the working world. They also can improve their knowledges and find a better job and, besides, we can prevent the vandalism or the consumition of drugs, alcohol and so on. With a messure like this we can make the crime comitted by people under age descend and make sure that they are going to be prepared to the future. Not only it will help the students, but also the families and the enterprises. 
