
Ana Amelia Fuertes Domínguez
Group 16


A8352-2 - Abortion - Right or wrong?


Abortion is one of the most controversial subjects of our generation. If we look up a definition of abortion, we will find that it is the removal or expulsion of a foetus from the uterus, resulting in or caused by its death. However, in this essay we will discuss that abortion can be more complex than a dictionary definition. We will comment various and different perspectives such as pro-life people who claim full legal protection of human embryos or foetuses by opposing legalized abortion and on the other hand we will see defenders of women's right who believe they should have complete control over her pregnancy. Also, this essay will compile some aspects of abortion as rape pregnancies or foetal deformities which are subject to an intense social debate in many parts of the world. 

One of the viewpoints is that all human beings have the right to live, including foetus. An example would be Christian morality, they believe that any action which destroys a foetus, it kills a human life and it is considered ethically or morally wrong. Some people seem to think, that if a pregnant woman is unable or unwilling to raise the child, there is the option of placing the child up for adoption. However, part of these adopted children will not enjoy of a blissful life. There is not guarantee for them to have a sweet home, so then some people would think that there is no point to bring them to life.

By contrast, the pro-choice viewers think that having a child should be a personal choice. They do not consider that a foetus has the full legal rights of a human being. Some of the evidences show that a foetus in the first months is not a human being as it is unable to survive by itself out of the womb. It is just seen as a mass of tissue which is developing. Therefore, women should have the right to decide whether or not having abortion on the grounds of her inviolable autonomy over matters concerning her own body. Nevertheless, a baby when is born is totally defenceless and dependant as it is a foetus. Some people consider pregnancy another stage of a human development to become an adult. 


The last of our points to analyse is that there are a number of special cases where a widely majority believes that abortion is a necessary option. Among these situations are those where the woman is raped or the foetus is malformed. However, despite these horrible crimes must be punished, it is rather unacceptable that an innocent unborn baby conceived from either way should be killed because of his father.
In summary, this essay has presented different points of view of abortion. We have considered foetal rights; a human being even before is born as well as women's right to take decisions and control of her own body. And finally we have argued about several controversial cases such as rapes and malformed foetus. The rights and wrongs of abortion have been endlessly debated and fought over, but still the debate rages on. It is an issue that needs to be dealt with, however there is no a simple answer.
