Abortion is the premature expulsion of the baby.

Many laws allows an abortion to take place if.If they pregnancy continue would cause a risk to the physical or menthal heath of the woman,greater 

than those of going through an abortion the risk to the children.

The expulsion of the baby can be performed up depending of the law of different countries.For example,in Spain can be performed up to the end of the 30 week of pregnancy and also in the Uk this can be performed up to the end of 24th week of the pregnancy.

Actually,there are many differents opinions about the abortion.The abortion procedure is morally wrong whether you look at it from a religious

perspective or not.

For example,the community of christians oppose abortion because they think that the baby is special and that he have a lot of offer in life.Also,they

considered that abortion is a form of infanticide and argue that it is wrong because it is indirect violation of one of the ten commandments:"You shall not kill".

Also,from a christian point of view,Gos should be the only person that decides when a life should begin or end and no other person because God has plans for baby's life.

Normally young people are in favour of abortion but also other people.The groups in favour of abortion are mostly humanitarian groups and they have their own point of view,according to National Abortion Campaign.

For they,the decision to terminate pregnancy is so important that it can only be made by the women.Women must always have a choice and

never have the decision forced upon them.The right of women to control their own fertility is a fundamental human right.

National Abortion Campaign states the basic right of women to control its own fertility,they say that women have a full right to choose when they

want to have children.Probally always be a certain number unplanned pregnancies and the mother concerned should have the complete choice

of either complete abortion,or keeping the baby.

In conclusion,abortion ends with life,but sometimes the best for mother and baby is finally with the pregnancy.
  
