      
      Nowadays, one of the most important thing which people are more interested in, is finding a good place to live; but no everybody have the chance to choose where to do it. Some people prefer living in big cities since they have more possibilities of entertainment such as go shopping, going to the cinema or the swimming-pool. Whereas others would rather live  in a small city more peaceful and stressless. Despite this a lot of people still want to buy a house in a megacity. I am going to try to explain the main advantages and disadvantages of living in a big city.

      To begin with, some people support living in a megacity like Madrid or Barcelona due to the eases which can be found in them. Fist of all, big cities are very well communicated thanks to the great variety of means of transport such as bus, underground, train and roads, highways, tracks, ect...which make possible that people can go from one place to another. Secondly, these cities have big supermarkets or department stores where you can do the shopping, go to the gym or buy the press in the same place. Nevertheless, these place are usually full of people and you have to wait large queues to pay the clothes, a ticket or what you buy. In despite of this, you spend less time on waiting in a queue than on moving to a different place. These arguments seem quite reasonable.
      
      To continue with, living in a megacity has many disadvantages, too. A recent survey reveals that big cities are the most dangerous because of the fact that the number burglaries, rapes and violent deaths has increased surprisingly in the last years. Another disadvantage is the pollution of this cities due to the lots of cars, buses, ect... that flood the streets every day, also these is very harmful for people's health. However, these things can change depending on the place you live in a megacity; if you live in the suburbs of Madrid, neither the safety or the pollution will be the same as if you live in the centre of the town. In addition, these reasons are very bear in mind by those couples which are going to buy a new house. These arguments seem difficult to deny.

      To finish with, there are people who hold that living in a megacity depends on the circumstances. People would only live in a big city because they work in there; others agree that it is better to live in a small town since you can enjoy the peace of these places and also, if you live near a megacity you can go there in few time if there is an emergency or you need something. Another considered point is staying in a megacity during the weekday and then spend the weekend and holidays in a more quite place for cutting off from the stress. Others prefer living in a different town although, they have to move every day to the working place and spend one or two hours on the trip, so they have not to spend money on living out of house. These arguments seem quite convincing.

      In conclusion, we can see there are many advantages and disadvantages about living in a megacity. Arguments in favour and against this way of living reasonable. Sometimes, people choose living or not in a big city depending on their situation and their job; for others, the decision depends on their birth place, their family, their friends and overcoat their way, usually cheerful and outgoing people will adapt better than quite and shy people.





































