      
      
      In our present society, "the botellón " is one of the most discussed problems. "The botellón" consist in buying alcohol in supermarkets and then going to drink it to parks, streets or places such; it is a very popular practice which has started taking place among young people in the last few years. Personally speaking, I do not consider "the botellón" as a good option for people who sometimes are not legally of age. In this essay I will try to show how harmful "the botellón" is for our present society, specially for young people.

	To begin with, I honestly believe that " the botellón" should not be allowed anywhere. No wonder reading in a newspaper that an underage has died because of an alcohol poisoning, what is worse is that it is becoming something common, and the high number of deaths caused by driving under the influence of alcohol which is other aspect that must be taken into account. Despite this, there are people who think these things can happen not only in the street doing "botellón" but inside a pub or disco as well. In addition, I think that in most of cases the youth do "botellón" so the cannot afford pay the alcoholic drinks in a pub, if this practice were not allowed, they  would have to drink in which it decrease the high consume of alcohol because of the high prizes and therefore the violence, the deaths, the poisoning and the car accidents would decrease too.

	To continue, it is my personal view that the Government should pay more attention to this serious problem, "the botellón". A lot of people young people who are not legally of age go out at weekends just for drinking without being aware of how harmful alcohol is for our health. Nevertheless, some people think that each person must have the right to decide what to do with his life, that is why everybody has the chance to choose whether drink or not. Furthermore, I strongly believe that a person who are not legally of age cannot choose about what is better for himself; as a result I think that more anti-alcohol campaigns should be launched in order to stop the consume of such damaging drink.

	To finish with, another thing that worries people is the amount or rubbish you can find in places where there has been a "botellón". Young people get drunk and they are not conscious of what they are doing and they sometimes start shouting without realizing they are disturbing the neighbours  with the noise. Apart from the dirt these people generate, you can find broken litter bins as a consequence of the vandalism caused by the alcohol effects. However, in some cities such as Sevilla or Barcelona, it is been created a place called "botellodromo" where you can drink in a legal way without disturbing anybody. Moreover, these places solve lots of problems such noise, vandalism, dirt...since the "botellodromos" appeared, the consume of alcohol has increased surprisingly and a recent survey reveals that the 90% of neighbours are against these places because they still suffer from the rests of "the botellón". 

	To sum up, I personally that "the botellón" should not be allowed. Lots of reasons could justify my point of view, some of them I said before, but the heaviest one is the great harm that alcohol can cause to our organism. If the youth want to drink, they can do it but always being conscious of the consequences that drinking may head to and without getting dirty the streets, disturbing the neighbours and never if they are not legally of age.
