      Nowadays, people usually are more prepared than they were several years ago. The reason is the youth want to study at university so as to get a degree and better qualification. I personally believe that spending eight or ten years on studying is not a waste of time since your future depends on it. However, you can still find those young people who don't want to waste their time cooped up "sitting on a chair". In this essay I will intend to explain that studying is not a waste of time.
      
      First of all, I strongly believe that everybody should study in an education centre. In our present society, finding a job is a very difficult thing since everybody wants to get a good job and the way of obtaining it is the education; for instance, a person who has finished his studies at high school is going to have more chances than a person who has not opened a book in his life. However, there are a lots of people who think that studying a degree is not a condition for having a good trade. In addition, in theses jobs which don't require an academic education, workers usually have to spend lots of hours so as to learn the trade and earn a salary that doesn't let them make a living.
      
      Secondly, I personally feel that everybody needs an academic education. This is why in this time, you have the chance of learning lots of useful things in adequate public places such as high school or university. At first you learn basic things, but then you learn things which are necessary in the life such as Maths, Language...For example if you have not ever studies History you won't know what political party you agree with and you could vote the political party which has different points of view from yours. Nevertheless, some people think it is not necessary going to school or university for learning Maths or History, they maintains that if you want to learn Maths, you only need to read a book or if you want to know about History, you only have to pay attention to the media, listen the radio or watch TV. In spite of this, from my point of view, reading a book is not enough for learning Maths; you should have a teacher who guides your studies, and the newspapers, radio or TV could not be as objective as you think and you can be wrong about political parties.
      
      Thirdly, personally speaking, I consider studying a privilege, which not everybody has and that is why, we should enjoy it. I think is better studying something you love since it is really nice learning something you are interesting in; and this is important because you are going to do it your whole life. Despite this, many people study a degree just so their jobs and their future, no matter, whether they like the degree or not so they think what it's more important is earning a lot of money. Furthermore, in my opinion, it is more important having a job you enjoy although, you earn less money than having a job you hate earning more money; this is important because you spend lots of hours doing your job and if you hate it you may become sad and bitter.
      
      To conclude, from my point of view, academic education seems to me a stage of life, which everybody should have because it is in that moment when you are going to learn some of the most useful thing of life. It is usually during the youth when you acquire knowledge and you finish training your thoughts and ideas. This is the reason why I think that everybody should try to study something, because there are people who have an incorrect idea about high school or university and they can regret haven't studied when they had the chance.   
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
