
      Nowadays, abortion is one of the most discussed problems in our present society. Abortion consists of stopping the pregnancy in a voluntary way; it is easy to find places where you can carry out this process with professional staff, but having an abortion is expensive, that is why private clinics are required. However, some people think that no reason justify the abortion. Whereas, in countries like EEUU or France, abortion is permitted no matter the circumstances; but here, in Spain, it depends of the way that the unwanted pregnancy has been caused. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the main viewpoints referring to the issue of abortion.

      Firstly, there are strong arguments in favour of abortion. Many people think every woman should decide about being or not mother something that can change her life. An organization in favour of abortion NATRA (National Abortion and Reproductive) supports that having a baby is an important decision which needs to be planned and wished but the baby could suffer later. As NATRA holds, there are several reasons to stop the pregnancy, some of them can be the age of the future parents, who cannot afford the expenses of a baby needs, such as food, clothes or school; or  the availability so maybe they have to work and the couple do not have time to look after their children. However, the problem sometimes begins when they decide to have an abortion; most of them wonder theirselves what moment the foetus begins to feel in, so they don't want their baby suffers. In spite of carrying out this process, the woman  won't problem for being mother in the future when she thinks is the suitable moment. This reasons seems to be heavy enough for stopping the pregnancy.

      Secondly, some arguments against abortion are supported by religious people. The Catholic Church thinks that pregnant women have to put the baby in front of herselves since they cannot decide about other live this is why a baby has nothing to do with the situation his or her mother might have gone through. Nevertheless, other people think each woman should have the chance to choose about her life. In addition, religious people think everybody should have the right of making a living and so that babies, which can be take care by the parent's family, grow up in an orphanage or be adopted by a new family which can look after them. This argument seems difficult to deny.

      Finally, many people which are in favour nor are against of abortion neither, think this decision depends on the situation of each couple and the reason of abortion. Some people supports abortion only if the baby has got any kind of malformation or he hasn't got any organ. Another possible point of view is that the earlier age of the parents or the expenses of the baby are not a good reason for killing a person. There are people who claims abortion just in case the woman has been raped. Others think that the abortion is a solution only when women can die on the birth. Some of this reasons are the only ones permit for to carry out abortion in Spain.

      To sum up, we can see there are several points of view about abortion, some of them supported and others condemned it. Many points of view do not supported or turned down the abortion either, it depends on the situation or the reason to carry out the process. Some arguments hold that the baby ought to have the chance to live seeing as without wondering about what happened to the woman; while, others defend that women should have the right to decide what they want to do with their lives and destiny. The decision of having an abortion is connected with the religion, believes and values of each person.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
