
Secondary School is up to 18 years in many countries. Secondary School is the last stage in the obligatory education, it comes after Primary School. Its purpose is to make the student be able to continue with higher studies or to face the working world with a better preparation. Secondary School is up to 18 years in countries such as Spain, Argentina, Chile, USA, Great Britain or Australia. However everybody does not agree with the length of this stage of a student's life. Yet I personally believe that Secondary School up to 18 years has many advantages and in this essay I intend to consider why it is better for the students' formation.

First, Secondary School up to 18 prepares those people who want to continue their studies at University. It appears to me students are better prepared for the degrees they chose at University because Secondary School is divided in different groups of subjects that interests in the different specialities. For instance, these groups are the study of science or humanities. As a result students study only what they interest for their following studies at University. Of course, it could be argued that students have to be studying up to very advanced ages and they seem to be in a kind of "jail" against their will, so it prejudices them because they should be working or studying other studies that really interest them. This maybe partly true, but I would argue that students haven't got enough maturity to decide what they want to do before 18, so I find useful to study up to that age to have time to make up our mind.

It also prepares people who want to work. For example, in Spain there are some courses in Obligatory education called "Módulos", they are divided in medium and high ones. The "Módulos" prepare people who want to work in a specific job, and when these people finish them at the age of 18, they straight away get their job. It must be said that these people who want to work instead of continue their studies at University would prefer to start working before, and the "Módulos" mean a period of two years in which people could have been working, but it does show that young people nowadays only care to earn "fast-money" and they don't think about what will happen with their future without the proper preparation.

Finally, to be studying until 18 helps to form the student personality. Apart from the different subjects students learn about, secondary education gives people some values to form their personality. For instance, people who chose a religious education have different points of view than people who receive a normal one, and it helps them to be able to support their ideas and have their own arguments about every topic of our life. On the other hand, this kind of education might annul the person's true personality and not let them chose other way of thinking but it seems to me people who study more has more culture, as a result, a better formed personality.

To conclude, obligatory education until 18 has many advantages because it complete the people's background who want to go on studying, it also helps those students that don't want to continue studying and prepares them for working and finally it provides the student with a well-formed personality. However, I think obligatory education up to 18 isn't approved by everybody and even more in the future and I think these people will have a serious lack of cultural background that isn't learnt in any place but school.  
