
Abortion is a much discussed issue nowadays. Not every country accepts abortion, so there will be different points of view from each other's institutions. For instance, Abortion is legal in England, Scotland and Wales since the Abortion act passed in 1967, however it remains illegal in Northern Ireland, in Argentina it is strictly limited by law... in most cases it depends on the importance they give to aspects like the protection of the mother's life, her physical or mental health, if she suffered a rape or if the baby comes with serious problems. This essay will argue about the different points of view that some institutions have related to abortion.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of abortion. A Colombian journalist pointed out that making abortion a crime doesn't save babies, it kills women. She adds that the group of cellules that compose a baby doesn't have any feeling because it hasn't got any organs or human attributes either and they might be divided in other thousand of human beings. She disagrees with those who call a foetus: "little human being", because if that group of cellules is called like this, other cellules of our body could be in the same situation and she compares the cellules of a foetus with the particles of our skin in the dust that we throw to the litter. Another argument in favour is said by a group of feminist women who said: "abortion is one of the most fundamental right for women". They see abortion as a way of freedom for women and most modern feminists want an easier access to abortion. These points of view aren't concerned about some of the psychological problems that abortion causes in some women, and a foetus can't be threatened like the dust of the floor of our house, although it isn't wanted. 

On the other hand, it could be also argued some negative arguments about abortion. Church has been an obstacle in the development of abortion during ages. Religious people support their arguments by defending their fifth commandment "You won't kill", because the foetus is an innocent victim and it is killed by those person who must save its life. As a result, abortion is for them a serious sin against the value of human life. Those who abort deserve excommunication. The old contains of these arguments explain that only very religious people support them. It is difficult to support these arguments living in a modern society were women haven't got the necessity of suffering a fault of that kind, when they can solve this problem by abortion. Nowadays people have many problems to stop to consider what church says and here Church should stop to know how society thinks, obviously because times have changed.

However, mid points about abortion exist and they must be commented. For instance, religious women have in mind what god sentences and this essay mentions in the previous paragraph, but they abort when they life can't be right with a baby, caused by future problems for the mother, rape, or a bad illness for the baby. This shows that moral prohibition hasn't any effect over the decision of abortion when the pregnancy results impossible for the woman. Another midpoint about abortion is supported by ethic, it states that to make laws about abortion it must be considered the variety of problems that could have the society and it isn't fair to believe in extreme opinions. Some of the evidence shows that midpoints are the wealthiest points of view because they consider both sides, against and in favour, and both must be analysed to have a reasonable answer to how to do with the issue of abortion.

To conclude, abortion is seen in different ways by different parts of society, and seems to be complicated to state the truth about it. Some are in favour, other are against and some midpoints exist too. Midpoints should be the ones to consider when thinking about abortion and extreme positions could change their mind because the ones who are in favour don't think about the mental damages of the mother, and in other hand, the against ones should be more open-minded.

 
