      For many years there have been a group of aspects which our society has concerned about. One of them, related to the youngest, is the kind of education we are providing our children. Education is a term that comes from Latin and which meanings are guide, lead and/or train. Being aware of the importance of transmiting knowledge, and values to the next generations and keeping in mind the deficiencies in the current Spanish Education System, several sectors and political parties try to look for the best way o education. So, not long ago, it started to be considered the idea of prolonging obligatory education up to 18 to avoid the lack of knowledge, and even manners, that lots of teenagers suffer. Personally speaking, I do not feel it is a solution or a help, and in this essay I will talk about the different points that make of this proposal something ineffective, in my view.

      Firstly, it is known that one of the main aims of this proposal is to reduce the high percentage of people who is unemployed, since it is a fact unemployment is increased, partly, by all those students who give up studying at an early age to introduce themselves in labour market. Many people could think it is a good idea that benefits everybody, however, two things make me think the contrary. On the one hand, I would argue that if to solve a problem makes another one gets worse, it is not really a solution.
Probably, the percentage of unemployment would fall but I strongly believe also the educational centres would fill with lots of unhappy pupils who would disturb both teachers and the rest of pupils, and would interrupt the normal rate of the classes. On the other hand, it appears to me it is just an excuse called "worry for the student" when what we really would do, in my view, it would be to solve other problems. I would say that these unhappy pupils would stand until 18 without paying attention and wasting their time.

      Secondly, from my point of view, it takes up teenagers the possibility to choose what they want to do. Despite, what we know as bachillerato and FP, offer a wide range of  courses and opportunities, not everybody feel attracted by them but they prefer to dedicate themselves ,perhaps to a familiar business, or another kind of job that does not have to be necessarily bad. Sometimes it is though that a person who carries out only the most basic studies is an uneducated person with no any training. However, I feel that the quantity of knowledge someone can possess does not depends so much on the courses a system or government establish, but  the interesent the person has to learn and know the news that takes place in the surroundings. So, in my view, somebody can be working in a cloth shop, for instance, and, at the same time be enriched with activities such as reading, travelling, learning to play instruments, etc, being like that an actual and prepared person.

      Finally, it seems to me important to take into account the negative consequences that, in my opinion, it would have for teachers. During the school hours, teachers and the headship of the educational centres are responsible of whatever can happen to the pupils. At present many teenagers abandon the classes before finishing the minimum years and, even parents are unaware of it. If the age of obligatory education increases, the quantity of pupils in the same situation would increase too. Maybe some parents think teachers should watch pupils much more, however I feel that it is not only very difficult but, besides, I would say that we should think if the work of teachers is teaching and being a complement for pupils' education or being soldiers trying to control situation hard to control even for their parents.

      In conclusion, from my point of view, it is not about extending the number of years 
limiting the capacity to choose, damaging teachers and the rest of pupils, creating
resignation for all those who do not want to study, and aggravating other the number of  questions. I think is about the possibilities, likings and capacity of each person. Apart of this, I feel what it should be change is the contain of the actual system to focus in more important topics. Also, Personally speaking, I would argue everyone should try to improve oneself whatever everyone does.


