Nowadays many people in Spain consume cigarettes although they know they are bad for their health. The new government has created a new antitobacco law that ban smoking in workplaces and establishes significant restrictions in bars and restaurants. Then, the Ministry of Health justified the law, arguing that 16% of all deaths in our country of people older than 35 years are a result of the consumption of cigarettes. In this essay, I will discuss different viewpoints about the tobacco ban in our society.

Most of businessmen and people in catering business disagree with the new law because most of them think that the government has imposed the anti-tobacco prohibition very strictly. Firstly, many owners of restaurants and pubs have decided not to ban smoking because they have seen that those who have done it have lost many of their best customers and as result money too. Secondly, the general opinion says that stores are losing money because of the antitobacco law. Next, research suggests that the cigarettes factories are losing millions of euros because sales of cigarettes box have decrease in 15 millions less than last year. For these reasons, tobacco companies don't support this law. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses and a little exaggerated because tobacco production only represents a little part of the whole Spanish economy, so forbidding it, it would not be a risk or significant loss to the economy.

On the other hand, the government argues that it would be beneficial to forbid smoking in work places because most people spend like 25 minutes smoking. Firstly, every worker who smokes cost his company 1500 euros a year. Next, studies indicate that it is a risk also for the non-smokers to be near a smoker, the smoke of cigarette is also carcinogenic. In addition to this, parents maintains that it is very dangerous for their children to be near a smoking place, so if they want the best for their children, they can't go to any bar or pub because of the smoke. This argument seems to make sense because in a free society men and women ultimately have the right within the law to choose their own lifestyle, even when it may damage their own health, but people do not have the right to damage the health of others, or to impose an intolerable degree of inconvenience or nuisance on others. 

In contrast, the political party PP will ask the government to soft the law because they say that the economy is not prepared for the total prohibition of selling tobacco in small locals. Firstly, one of the best examples of tolerance is Madrid, which has discussed of letting smoke in big events such as weddings, communions, baptisms and so on. Secondly, the politician Esperanza Aguirre proposed to change this law. Next, she doesn't want people to go outside to smoke a cigarette because some smokers say that that are treated as a drug addicts and they suffer discrimination. Thirdly, The Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) in England supports further restrictions but they vehemently oppose what has become a systematic attempt to demonise smokers. These arguments are rather convincing and seem to be logical; it is the only way to have everyone happy with the anti-tobacco law. 

In conclusion, I have to say that this new law is the better way to respect each other, besides it has some points that have to be looked through again. Most of people say that they are very satisfied with the law but also there are people who don't do their duty and still smokes, bothering people who don't. Some of the evidences show that smoking is very dangerous for the smoker and also for the people around the smoker, so the new law would be the better way to solve many of the health problems nowadays. The best recommendation would be to respect the law and analyse all the points on it. 


