
Almost every day there are traffic jams in Madrid.  This is a big problem for most drivers and their passengers.  When you get into a traffic jam it is very difficult to get out of it, and drivers can easily spend ten or twelve hours a week in traffic jams.  But it gets worse if you don't have a car and you have to get to places by bus.  Bus timetables are subjective to changes, depending on the amount of traffic.  Someone who has to catch a bus every day can spend three times as much time on the road as someone who has a car.  In this essay, I am going to try and give several solutions to this problem.

First, I'd increase the availability of public transport.  There are many buses that only go past their bus stops once an hour.  This makes it very inconvenient for passengers who leave work or leave school only a few minutes after the bus has left, because they have to wait for an hour for the next bus.  On the other hand, there are many buses that go past their bus stops every ten, fifteen or twenty minutes.  But this only happens in the cities and there are many people that live outside Madrid and yet have to go work there.  It is also very common to find buses loaded with passengers at certain times and in this case, it would be advisable to increase the amount of buses.  

Secondly, the use of motorbikes during thick traffic could be advisable.  Most cars only have the driver in them and if these drivers used motorbikes instead of cars, it would make the traffic more fluid.  The problem with motorbikes is that it is uncomfortable to use them during bad weather such as rain, snow, strong winds, etc.  Also, in case of a collision between a car and a motorbike it is always the car that will suffer less damage.  These risks however can be lessened by cautious driving from both motorcyclists and car drivers.  

Another point would be that slow moving vehicles are always a problem for other drivers.  When you get a slow moving vehicle in front of faster moving vehicles, you always get a long line of cars wanting to overtake.  If these cars can't overtake because there is a lot of oncoming traffic or the markings of the road don't allow it, you can easily get a line of twenty or thirty cars behind the slow moving vehicle within a few minutes.  When the faster vehicles finally manage to overtake the slow moving one or that vehicle turns off, you will have a collection of cars packed together, that originally were separate, that will eventually move together and form a traffic jam.  If slow moving vehicles, like trucks, are not allowed to circulate on the roads during peak hour traffic, it could help to make traffic more fluid.  Although, this solution would be very difficult to put into action, it could work.

So then, I have given three possible solutions to the traffic problems Madrid has.  By increasing the amount of public transport at certain hours, encouraging people that drive alone to use motorbikes and stopping big and slow moving vehicles from circulation during peak hours of traffic, it could be possible to lessen the amount or length of traffic jams.  Although these solutions could work, they would have to be done at the same time.  By using only one of these possibilities, I seriously doubt that there would be a big enough change in the traffic for people to notice.  
