  Abortion has almost always been an issue of debate in our society.  A woman can have a natural abortion for several reasons, like a malformation with the foetus or because her body rejects the baby.  On the other hand, a woman can also decide that she does not want her baby and decide to have an abortion to get rid of it.  Nowadays, there are many people against the practise of abortion to healthy mothers and babies, they are the pro-life supporters.  But there are also many people who believe women should be able to choose whether they want to have their babies or not, independently of how it was conceived.  In this essay I am going to show the different points of view institutions or people have towards a forced abortion.
  On one hand we have the religious community or the church, which are against abortion.  According to the Catholic Church, having a provoked abortion is equal to murdering an individual.  From the statistics they have gathered, abortion has been the death cause of more than twenty five million babies only in the United States since 1973, year when abortion was legalized.  Priests have also pointed out that, although the Bible says nothing about abortion being against God's wishes, it does say that a pregnant woman carries a human being in her womb and that murdering the innocent (and human beings that haven't been born are considered innocent creatures) is a terrible crime that should always be condemned.  These arguments can be quite convincing for a religious person, but for a non religious person or someone who believes in a different god from ours, could find these reasons insufficient.
  On the other hand we have the pro-choice supporters, who believe women have the right to decide whether they want to have their babies or not.  The people who support this idea use it to justify cases of abortion when the woman has been raped.  They also say that the foetus is not yet a human being and therefore the mother has every right to decide if she is going to continue with her pregnancy or interrupt it.  It has also been stated that the moment when a person begins to live is not known and that because of this, the state has no right to make laws, but to leave the decision to women to choose what they want to do with their bodies.  Nevertheless, many women often have problems in getting an abortion and in many countries it is even considered a crime.  Luckily for them, there are countries like Holland, Israel, Australia, Italy, France and Japan don't consider abortion to be a crime and even offer free abortions in public hospitals.
  In between these two opinions there are people who are not as extreme.  They believe that abortion should be the last resource a woman must consider using.  They agree that a sexual education is very important and that contraception measures should always be taken to avoid the possibility of an unwanted baby.  They also agree on the right of human dignity.  However, they do not agree on the moment a human life begins.  In any case, it seems as if the majority of the population want abortion to be legalised everywhere, especially in cases of rape, danger for the mother or malformations of the foetus.  This argument seems to be the most widely spread and the most accepted by the world population.
  So then, there are several arguments the church uses to condemn abortion, amongst which we can find the murder of innocent babies.  We also have those people or organisations that support the freedom of choice of the mother.  Last of all, we have those people that are neither in favour or against abortion, but remain open to the possibility of abortion within certain circumstances like danger for the mother, malformations, etc.  On balance, it seems that most people are in favour of abortion and it's legalisation in extreme circumstances like raping, etc.
