
      Traffic is one of the worst problem in our cities, especially in Madrid. Nowadays in Madrid traffic is the cause of many problems as stress, changes of character (when you are driving) from good to bad, and which is considered the worst aspect of traffic, the frightened and hated traffic jams which can do lose many hours at day. This unsoportable problem can change the style of life of very much families that depends on cars. In this essay I will discuss what kind of solutions can be adopted to solve the problem of traffic in Madrid.

      First of all, I think that one of the best ways to combat the growing problem of traffic in Madrid is to improve public transport, increase the number of vehicles of this fleet and decrease the prices of the public transport tickets. If we have better systems of transport, which will allow people leave his cars at home, people could travel with more fast and efficients systems of transport because roads and streets will be more relieved, giving people more free time to spend in their personal things and whit this initiative we can give a breath to the earth. This solution can be refuted by the position that people need their own cars to move free and that improve public transport is too much expensive. But it can be countered whith the diposable incomes from the tickets or subscriptions of the users.
      
      In second place we have other important type of solution or possibilitie to end with traffic problems, to improve our roads, streets and communications between them. This is a most complicated task to do because it need very much time, money and work, but it is possible. In this way when works will be finished we will have better roads, more entrances to the city and we can move too fast within the streets. We can find problems or risks at time to do this task as it cause very much traffic jams or noises because of the construction site. But as in the M-30 this small problems are solved when work finish and we can see the advantages of this new construction.
      
      Finally, the last but not the least, I think that one acceptable solution for the problem of this essay is the creation of a series of cycle lanes which allows people to go from home to or maybe from the perimeter of the city to work. It is a possible solution because it is less expensive than renew roads and it permit that cars run at the same time than cycles and motorbikes. In the opposite side we can find this solution a bit utopian beacause some people is reluctant to leave their car at home or to do physical exercise. However, it is not impossible,  many people want to do exercise and want to leave the car at home because it is more healthy but what is more important it is cheaper than put petrol in the car, also it can help our planet.
      
      So then , we have seen several options which can solve the problem of traffic in Madrid, this solutions not all of them perfect nor but are acceptable solutions. The problem of traffic is caused by the excesive number of cars in our highways and streets, the bad planning of the constructions in the city, and the determination of drivers to going to the door of  work  whit their cars. One possible solution to this problem might be to use less the car and more public transport to go to work and give in our reluctant toward car.
      



