
Nowadays the practise of legal abortion is only allowed in 54 countries in the world, which is about 61 percent of the world population. 97 countries, about 39 percent of the population, have abortion laws that make it illegal according to the pro-abortion Centre for Reproductive Law and Policy in New York. In Spain, the abortion is only legal when either the mother's life or the mother's physical and mental health is in danger. Some people believe that the abortion should be a basic women's right to choose about their own wills; but others disagree with that opinion because it's considered a murder. In this essay, I am going to show the different people's opinions about the abortion concerning the Spanish legislation and the moral background.

Some people argue that the parents of an unborn baby should take the decision about either interrupting the pregnancy or not. It's also argued that no reason needs to be given. Those ones who agree about legalizing the abortion think that there are several reasons to make it a women's right. First, because the life of the mother could be saved. Second, to preserve the physical health and the mental health of the mother. Third, it's also supported in cases of rape and incest. These arguments supported by some people can be felt really convincing but others find them unfair because it's not considered the life of the new human being, who can have a good healthy long life even though the mother can die when giving a birth.

It has been pointed out that the approval of the legalization of the abortion would make decrease the amount of clandestine unhealthy abortions taken place all over the World, in places that are not ready to do these types of surgeries. According to this fact, it would be more ethical and safer that the international legislations took care of this issue when millions of mothers can be about to die at these illegal places. This argument is strong enough for those people who back the cause, but it doesn't seem a good argument for those ones who are against of making abortion legal because from their point of view nobody would be about to die at any place if some mothers didn't want to interfere with their own pregnancy.


One of the main arguments supported by doctors and scientists, in favour of the abortion, is that some mothers could prevent the suffering of their unborn children in cases of medical problems and birth defects. This argument can be apparently true because in that way we could avoid the pain of thousands of children who are been born with some kind of disability that makes their lives hard and distressing. In this way, families and people related to these children would not suffer seeing how one of their relatives has a bad time trying to survive and trying to have a normal life because there is no expectation that the handicapped child recovers.

On the other hand, mostly from a conservative point of view, some people are against the abortion because it's considered as a murder under any circumstance. Only 4 countries in the World feel it this way. These countries are the Vatican, Malta, Chile and El Salvador. In these countries with a high Catholic population it's thought that it does not exist any cause in order to avoid the birth of the future offspring that has a soul as anyone else and which would break the sixth commandment: ' Not to kill'. Furthermore, it can be argued that the abortion is a type of murder since every one has the right to live. 

Finally, from the point of view of those who are in favour of the abortion, it could be claimed that the legalization of it could solve the complicated situation of those parents who do not want a future baby because they can't afford to support a child. This seems a strong argument even though it appears to be some other solutions before practicing abortion such as giving the child into adoption so that the baby could be supported by a family with such a good income besides the child would be raised in a happy environment where their foster parents could enthusiastically take care of them.

There are always several opinions about this important issue; some people agree that legalization of abortion could be a good idea if governments completely control the situation and make sure that laws and rules are followed and there is no corruption within doctors and patients. However, there always will be the religious view, which considers abortion as a murder and stays tough to not practice it by any cause.



So then, there are many arguments concerning the topic of abortion. The main arguments in favour are those that try to protect the life and the health of the mother. Other arguments seem to try to protect the mothers' social and/or economic reason and her dignity, in case of rape and/or incest. On the other hand, it's considered that abortion should not be allowed by any reason. Moreover, many people who are against the abortion think that it should be illegal because the legalization of it would make increase the amount of pregnancy interruptions because women would not want to deal with their own responsibilities during their sexual relationships and the practical of abortion would be as simple as getting a haircut and any daily act. This is a hard issue to solve since everybody disagrees because of that women should plan ideas to convince the rest of the society to be either in favour or against the abortion.



