


In Spain during the past ten years the amount of students that have got into college has drastically decreased to 200,000. The 'M.E.C.', Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia, has published several studies about the competition and enthusiasm of the Spanish educational institutions which show such a big indifference within the Spanish students. This fact explains how the students of 'E.S.O.' ( Educación Secundaria Obligatoria) has decreased to the amount of 300,000 ones since 1999. Nowadays, the Spanish society is worried by these facts which have made to bring up the issue of obligatory education must be up to 18. In this essay I intend to argue that our Government should care about designing new methods of teaching in order to take the attention of these young students.

After your high school graduation, most of the students do know what they want to do with their professional careers, so then, I believe that obligatory education should not be up to 18 years.  Eighteen is a good age to take our own way with applying to colleges or even finding a job. I strongly believe that the Government can't force any under-age student to keep going to class when they would prefer to be at some other place rather than sitting down on a sit that could be taken by other people that really want to take advantage of a good education. Every year our Government spends around 3,000 euros on each of us.

From my point of view, none student should be obligated to go to school even when being under-age. I have assisted to Spanish and American schools and I think that first world countries have a serious problem with teenagers. These countries are forcing young people to go to school when these could be really glad about being on stage, practising their acting skills, or being in a ballet classroom, giving shape to their flexible muscles. Everybody has good skills to do something different rather than staying in a calculus classroom for hours when they probably are not interested on learning that.

Last year, according to the 'M.E.C.', 42,712.6 millions of euros were spent on the public education. From my point of view, this is a fact which I 
totally disagree with because schools are wasting lots of money trying to convert a campus into a jail because they don't want their students to escape from class. A couple of days ago I was taking a walk with my dog by the school where I used to go and I astonished saw how the fences that 
surround the school go up to three meters high. This fact makes me think that something is wrong with education in our country. I believe that some method must be created to make students more appeal to assist to school everyday.  When that happens our Government is going to stop wasting time and money on doing things that don't work out with young students.

To conclude, I would say that everybody should have freedom enough to choose their professional education. If someone wants to live in the country far away from the mainstream and to be educated the way they want to; why would the Government disturb a decision like that? To make rules without asking for advice to the young students is such a big mistake. That's why I mainly reject the idea of considering obligatory education up to 18 years. This is a difficult issue to regard, because of that, most of the Spanish society must agree about a solution which should include the opinion of the students. Everyone has their great visions of future to fulfil their own goals.



