The obligatory education is mainly associated with three concepts: equity,efficiency and the student's maturity to make their own decisions. The equity is the social need, in european societies, of giving everyone the same opportunities. When we speak about efficiency, we are talking about how much knowledge does the student have in a certain course. The goal, in culture terms, of a good educational system is that everyone has a decent knowledge about every subject. In this essay, I will argue that it is better to have a good educational system than a long educational system.

I think that we are lying when we say that right now everyone has the same education because the government guarantees the schooling up to sixteen years.  As an example, we have statistics from Spanish "Ministerio de Educación" that say that , in 1999, the 71 percent of the students who couldn't finish the ESO were from the lowest social class. Some people might argue that as the subjects are unified, everyone has the same knowledge in the same course, I strongly disagree with that because I think that if the teacher is not prepared for the student's situation and their context he can't teach that subject completely and the students don't learn what they have to learn there.

In my view, if we want to improve the efficiency level we don't have to speak about the number of years you are studying, instead of that we should speak about how much knowledge do you get  to learn each year. First, it is known that most students fail most of the exams in their first university year, this happens, in my opinion, because they reach the university without the proper knowledge. 
On the other hand, some people might argue that there is no way to give the students such a great deal of knowledge. However, I think that if there were an compulsory educational system up to eighteen years old, there would be plenty of time to give the students that learning time and also the universities wouldn't be able to put the student's knowledge as an excuse for the great amount of students failing in their first year.

Some people might argue that most of the young people are mature enough to choose whether if they want to continue studying or not, as they feel that , as they where mature enough when they were sixteen, every young of every generation should be mature enough when he reach sixteen years. I strongly disagree with that, and I have several reasons. First they are not legally mature enough to vote or to go to jail so let's have a common idea of maturity before we decide if they are mature enough. Second, they are their father's burden till eighteen years old, and even after that, so, in my opinion, they wouldn't be deciding, it would be their parent's decision. Third, in my opinion, society has made this last generations less independent and autonomous than the ones of heir parents and grandparents, as they have had almost everything they have ever wanted and they have also had more access to information but there were no good reasons to be interested in it so they haven't used that access much.

In summary, I think that regarding an obligatory educational system we have to focus in improving the actual one in its equity and efficiency, and we have to make it last till eighteen so we are consequential with the age when we think a young is mature enough to make such a important decision as leaving his education aside. One of the first steps the society should take to ease that problem is prolonging the extent of the obligatory educational system till they are legally mature enough for anything else, so we keep the same concept of maturity in every aspect of the society.
