

The problem of traffic in Madrid has increased over the past several years, creating problems in the movement, there are more accidents and pollution. People violate the laws in the city center beyond the limits of speed, skips the current regulations on traffic and continually used theirs transport instead of using public transport .the roadworks of the M-30 also has created congestion and irregularity in the circulation. Increasingly there are more road and people are confused lot, causing serious damage to society.


From my point of view I think that the people we should use more public transport and obey our Laws .Every day die on our streets people attack because of the high speed of the drivers .the attack deaths of three women in just 48 hours at the district of Villaverde serious injuries to a fourth Ciudad Lineal recreates a concise vision of our circulation, we should put more traffic lights and restrict movement in certain areas of the capital, as is the center (puerta del so), since almost all pollution is concentrated in central and hurts us not only to us but also to the oldest buildings, which ultimately to collapse.


However, these arguments in favour of public transportation and moderate pollution have some weaknesses .If the cars can not reach the center, many people should keep theirs car in the parking and they will spend a lot of money, they would end up going to the center.the. The restriction of movement was considered by the government without any purpose because today there is movement in the city center.There aren't  pollution in the center.


In a second part presents practical studies, suggestions for the future: proposals for specific cases (Newbury- city small-in Leeds- great city, Norwich- city historically, in London), and others already developed in the past before this phenomenon or other (in the same Great Britain, elsewhere in Europe and USA). Various solutions are presented, although it notes that each city should develop their own, because of a problem are not the same as those of others. Of course, you can set general guidelines.


In Madrid the problem affects the population because now are road building and make more tunnels for he has led the traffic under the ground (in the M-30) and Roads have been built outside the m-40 and radiares 5,6,4... For keep the traffic in the suburbs. Jams are becoming more fluid.
It is intended that city buses pollute less. The municipalities of Madrid, Palma de Mallorca and the Metropolitan Entitat Barcelona, signed an agreement with Repsol-Butano to transform four buses Pegasus so that their engines run on LPG (Gas Licuados Petroleum). These buses reduce up to 30% infection rates with respect to normal, make less noise and the economic costs are similar


The posibility is intended to improve the environment of cities, the quality of life of its inhabitants, solve congestion and excess cars. We have to change strategies: it must stop building more roads or roads that all we did was to encourage a greater number of private vehicles. In Europe, more and more people are opposed to the use of the automobile in the center.

