
Abortion is a controversial subject in various societies because of the moral and ethical issues that surround it. Abortion laws vary widely depending on the country. For example, in places like Chile, Malta and Vatican City, the procedure is banned entirely in opposition to places like Canada which establish no restrictions about it. Both supporters and opponents of legal abortion believe their position addresses a fundamental human right. In this essay I am going to show the different points of view concerning the subject of abortion.

There are several arguments which may support the issue of abortion. According to pro-choice groups, the abortion penalty attempts against women human rights. One of these rights is to have control over their bodies, so they should have the freedom to decide whether the child should live or die. These groups also seem to believe that the foetus is not really a person, (it has no name, no identity), and so the parents should be free to decide if they want to continue the pregnancy or not. Another argument used by pro-choice people is that a child which is not wished should never be born. This would be bad for the kid, because probably he would not be loved.Althought all of this is partly true, most people would point out that freedom doesn't give anybody the right to hurt the child, who is another human being.

On the other hand, there are several arguments against abortion. One of the main arguments used by pro-life groups is that the embryo or foetus is already a person with human rights, such as the right to be born, to grow and to have a family, so if they consider that the foetus is a human being, his rights should be defended. According to Pro-life groups the right to live of the foetus is more important than the women right of abortion, so the child should be protected by the government. In addition these groups claim that abortion is not the solution for the overpopulation. There are other alternatives, (for example, the birth rate) rather than abortion. These arguments seem rather reasonable, although the first one is less persuasive, because it's not clear when does exactly begin the human life.

Of course, some people argue that abortion is a good idea just in certain circumstances. It could be suggested that abortion should be a solution in cases in which women are in danger of dying or are exposed to any possible harm in their pregnancy. Another possible point is that it also should be legal when the woman has been raped, because it has not been her choice having that baby. It is also reasonable to argue that a child mentally retarded or with any other kind of deficiencies should not be born, because he and his parents will suffer a lot.
Although the first two arguments seem logical and convincing, the last one seems quite unfair because a retarded child is still a human being who has rights and though he will have restrictions in life, he will be able to live as any other child.

To sum up, there are many arguments concerning abortion. The main arguments in favor are that women should be free to have control over their bodies, and that they have the right to decide over the child, since this is not considered a human being till is born. On the other hand, those who are against it claim that the foetus is a human being and consequently his rights should be protected on the first place. Considering all these points, it might be logical to allow abortion in extreme cases, such  rape and the danger of the mother.




