
In Spain, since 1990, the obligatory education goes from 6 to 16 years. This means that at the age of 16, a teenager can decide to stop studying and start working. However, some people think that it should be up to 18 to stop the precarious work and unemployment provoked by this young people who start working at an early age. In this essay I intend to consider some of the reasons why obligatory education, as I feel it, should not be up to 18.

First, from my point of view, I think that at the age of 16, people are prepared enough for having a job. By that time they have achieved the knowledge necessary for it and although they are not adults, I believe that they are mature and responsible enough for working. Of course, it could be argued that an eighteen year-old is more prepared for working that a sixteen year-old, because he's been studying more time, so he has a higher educational level and consequently, he could manage to get a better job. However, I think that when a sixteen year-old has decided not to study more, even though maybe he is not able to get a job an eighteen year-old could, he is capable of working because that's what he has decided.

Moreover, a teenager who has chosen not to study more, I personally believe that he will feel forced to do something he doesn't want to. The consequences of this would be negative. For example, this people who are not interested in studying would interrupt the other part of the class, so it would cause a bad atmosphere and it would affect on the rhythm of the class. And even though some people might think that its better to be more prepared so as not to get unstable and bad paid jobs, it appears to me that is better to let those young people begin to work if that's what they like, because maybe study is not for them but they could be good at a job and they could have a good future as others who decide to study.

Finally, I would say that lengthening the obligatory education two more years is not the solution for the precarious work, which is a way of camouflaging it. I strongly believe that the government should improve the obligatory education system in order to avoid those teenagers from leaving the school. Of course it could be argued that the situation a sixteen year-old has at work is precarious , because they cannot do certain jobs, they cannot make extra hours and because of the fact that they can't be paid so much, their bosses take advantage of that situation, so this could be avoided lengthening the obligatory education. Nevertheless, I still don't think that the solution of forcing young people to study till they are 18 is the best, because it would provoke more problems.

To sum up, in this essay I have argued that there are some reasons why the obligatory system should not be changed. If it was up to 18 it would cause some serious problems at schools by these people who don't want to study and I think there are other solutions for avoiding the precarious work that are more suitable than this. I believe that if the government decides to implant this law, the majority of the students will not agree with it and that it would have bad consequences.
