
       In September the 11th 2001 the World Trade Center, in Manhattan, was attacked by the terrorist organisation Al-Qaeda. Some saw this as a challenge to what has been called the 'Pax Americana», the firmness that the United States and its allies reached after the end of the Cold War, short before the breakdown of USSR. However, the USA responded to this challenge by leading an offensive against the terrorist organisation Al-Qaeda and all of its sympathizers .
	
       Following the 11/S Afghanistan was invaded by the North Atlantic Treaty troops led by the United States'. From the beginning, it was meant to be for the capture of Usama Bin Laden and other leaders or members of the terrorist organisation Al-Qaeda. Nevertheless, though Bin Laden himself was not found, some leaders were, and the taliban tyranny, an extreme conservative islamic regime, imposed in 1994 after the civil war, was overthrown, starting a new democratic era for Afghanistan. 
	Among the European Union, terrorism was not unknown, specially to Spain and the United Kingdom. Despite the Irish Republican Army was not on active service then and ETA hadn't committed terrorist attacks for quite a long time, both United Kingdom and Spain were familiar with terrorism. This might be what led both them British PM Tony Blair and Spanish Premier J.M. Aznar to join U.S. President George W. Bush at Treaty of Açores for the occupation of Irak. It was suggested that the regime of Saddam Hussein could be arming itself to fight the United States. According to Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of Defense to the United States,  Saddam Hussein and Al-Qaeda leader Usama Bin Laden had joined to what he called 'the Axis of Evil» to attack the 'free countries of Democracy». In April the 9th, 2003 the Occupation Forces conquered Baghdad, capital city of Irak. In the beginning this was seen by some as a very succesful campaign. However, since then, attacks on both civilian population and NATO soldiers had become more frequent in main cities in Irak. It also became usual abductions on reporters. But also, the occupation of Irak by the signatories of the Treaty of Açores appeals to be the main reason for the attacks on Madrid and London, in March the 11th, 2004 and July the 7th, 2005 respectively. 
	The war against terrorism has been felt in very different ways by the different communities affected. On the one hand, in the beginning of it, though unofficially, it was rather habitual the attack or boycott on people either of islamic origins or muslim beliefs. On the other hand, people living in western countries may have seen an increase on airport's security, as it has also been increased the detection competence of potentially dangerous elements by security forces. 
	One of the main arguments given in favour of the so-called war against terrorism are the improvements made in the afghan society. During the extreme-conservative islamic regime ran by the taliban, women were repressed under male's rule according to the Sharia- nowadays women may enjoy the advantages of public health and education, of which they used not to do so. It also has been claimed that them women are actually able to run their life on their own, something that may appeal common for westerners, but it is not that usual in islamic countries. 
	Back homeland, in the USA has crop up a controversial division between those who support President George W. Bush and those who doesn't. On the one hand, there are some who think that strength can only be shown through unity, even when deception spreads. On the other hand there are those who regret the attack on Irak and want soldiers to come back America and finish that way the killing of them soldiers.
       Finally, it has been suggesed that the governments that proclaimed the legitimacy of the Occupation in search of the Massive Destruction Weapons might have interests over the Oil Reserves set on Irak. According to that, Germany and France should not join the Treaty of Açores as long as they're commercial partners of Irak, while Spanish and British commercial interests in the area would not be affected by the occupation.
	
       To conclude, the war against terrorism has brought a large number of questions around  international politics. The fact that the occupation of Irak was made despite the consensus reached by the United Nations cannot establish precedent, as it has been revealed that Pakistan and India do have Massive Destruction Weapons, and International Law is strongly oppossed by the principle ius cogens that no country has the right to attack another if it hasn't be attacked first by this one, so the concept of preventive war would be totally illegal. 
