	Madrid is the largest city in Spain; it is also one of the largest capital cities in Europe, only beaten by London (21M people), Paris (19M people), Berlin (12M people) and Warsaw (some 9M people). It is also an important financial area, which homes some important Spain-based lobbies such as IndiTex and Repsol. Besides, as most capital cities, Madrid is one of the most touristic points of Spain, due to its museums among other attractions, which makes of Madrid a very dynamic city. Because of that, it is extremely important its proper operation.
	While most of tourists who visit Madrid, go either walking or using public transport, some of the city and its suburbs inhabitants, together with some of those who live in further areas, don't. They usually get the car instead- by rush hour some of the main roads get obstructed as a rule.  Either because of car accidents or because of repairs, traffic jams happen almost every working day. 
	Repairs are quite common in Madrid, mainly in the central areas.  Frequently, repairs are needed due to the worsening of many old buildings or infrastructures, such as draining works. Most of the buildings and the sewers in the central areas were first built in the first half of the 20th century- since then engineering has changed, so has the city itself. This and the common worsening of everything has made required some repairs here and there. 
	It has been said that another problem for traffic jams is the lack of respect to the road signs both by pedestrians and drivers lead to disorders. Due to this, jams are commonly generated by accidents, generated themselves by a misinterpretation of road signs or either the deliberate or accidental avoid of these.
      One of the possible solutions to this might be the increase of the use of public transport. On the one hand, for some, it may be seen as expensive or uncomfortable, as it is shared with loads of people and its timetable may not meet one's. On the other hand, because of the oil-rate rising, the car park cost or parking meters', it actually becomes cheaper also, concerning the tube, it is rather rare to have any hold-up, while it is true that delays are quite frequent. 
	It has been suggested that public transports in Madrid are among the best for many reasons. As compared to other capital's, such as London's and Paris', it appears to be cheap and modern. For instance, Madrid Underground has been recently cleansed and renovated, not all of it, though. However, in the past two years 'till now it has been largely extended, so nowadays the Tube covers the central areas as a whole and most of its suburbs.
	Nevertheless, the Mayor of Madrid has already created a new police service, the Traffic Officers, as a way to cease urban jams. However, for many citizens this has seemed as a futile attempt to make traffic any easier. Some might think that traffic problems are actually unsolvable.
	In conclusion there are different problems that contribute to bad traffic circulation. But it could be argued that traffic works fine enough for a large city as it is Madrid. Anyway many efforts have been made, but in the end it looks the same, since it might be not possible for a city this large to work perfectly.  
