
The right to abortion is nowadays a very controversial issue. Pro-choice groups support the legal right of abortion based mainly on women's freedom while pro-life groups, most of them religious deny it above all because the child has its own rights too. Abortion is legal in some countries under some circumstances and illegal in others under any or most. There are different abortion methods and these may cause consequences on women's health depending mostly on the stage of pregnancy. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints that suggest whether abortion is right or wrong.
First, one of the main arguments about the right of abortion is women's freedom. Pro-choice groups suggest that a woman should be free to choose whether to carry out a pregnancy or not based on the fact that a woman may not want to be give birth. This argument seems reasonable since contraconceptive methods can fail occasionally and according to recent research in the USA only 8% of women who have abortions do not use forms of birth control. Another shared argument that supports abortion is right is the fact that the government should not be allowed to force women to continue a pregnancy especially when this can be unwanted. Furthermore, most abortions are performed during the first trimester when the fetus, according to what has been said by many scientists, cannot exist independent of the mother. Among all, this argument does not seem very logical since every fetus needs a uterus to be conceived and there is not an exact time that determines when the fetus is independent from the uterus.
Second, one common argument upheld against abortion is that no one should have the right to end with someone's life. This appears to be fair since no civilized society permits one human being to intentionally take the life of another. It is also suggested, mainly by religious groups, that a child is a holy gift and its murder is one of the worst sins. In addition it has been pointed out that those who choose to abort are mostly minors with insufficient experience to understand fully what they are doing. Another possible argument is that many people who pay taxes are against abortion consequently using those taxes to  fund abortion is morally wrong. This perspective does seem to be very persuasive since taxes are also used to fund wars many people are against and that does not appear morally right either.
There are also some other arguments regarding abortion, which depend on the mother's situation. Many people agree that if a minor has been sexually abused then it should have the right to abort. This viewpoint seems sensible since the victim will not in the majority of the cases want to give birth to that child and also because carrying  that pregnancy may affect her health. Another perspective is that abortion should be legal until certain age because people over an adult age may be more prepared economically and psychologically to have a child. This appear to be logical since young people cannot afford in most cases the costs of bringing up a child.
In conclusion, it is possible to see that there are many viewpoints both defending and condemning whether abortion is right or wrong. On the one hand pro-choice groups defend it should be permisible owing to civil rights and freedom and suggest that forcing a woman to an unwanted pregnancy is morally wrong. On the other hand, pro-life groups critique its legislation because it's considered a cruel felony. So among these two, there are some people who believe it depends on the circumstances the woman has got pregnant.  Due to these variety of opinions, it is difficult to consider right or wrong, it is slightly easier to decide in particular cases.
