
Obligatory education has a very low level in Spain in comparison with other European countries. The decreasing number of Spanish people who continue their studies after ESO "Educación Secundaria Obligatoria" is alarming. According to the MEC "Ministerio de Educacion y Ciencia" only 640.541 out of 1.843.844 continued their studies to "Bachillerato" in 2005-2006. Some people believe that prolonging the obligatory education would improve student's formation.  In this essay I will argue why I think the obligatory secondary education should not be up to 18 years and I will also give some points why and how I think it should be upgraded.
First I believe that studying after the age of sixteen should be optional as it traditionally has been. One reason to consider this is that some young people do not like studying and prefer trying to succeed as artists, musicians or painters. Others instead, want to start working to become independent and live on their own, this can be logical since we live in a liberal country and we are supposed to be free. Another reason is that some young students can not afford to study and need to work to help their families economically. Of course it could be argued that, this problem is solved since the government gives study-grants but this is not enough to finance one's studies in some cases. 
On the other hand getting a job at the age of sixteen is not enough to become independent. Most adolescents start working in temporary jobs but these do not guarantee them a safe position or a fair salary to live on their own. Therefore some people may think that compulsory education should be longer so that students get a better formation and be able to apply for better jobs. However, the problem is students make their choice of working instead of studying for different causes and in my view some of these blame the system.
One of the main causes why most students leave schools is because they think "bachillerato" is a lot more difficult than "ESO". Personally speaking I agree with this and that is why I think the best to upgrade the education level is to improve "ESO". Students should not be allowed to pass the course failing subjects as this makes them lose interest on their studies since they can pass even if they don't work. The number of Students per class should be reduced so that the teacher could control better the student's progress. In addition teachers should encourage students to go on studying letting them know what the benefits and opportunities are of studying for a degree. This could help to increase the number of post-obligatory education students and to make them feel capable of facing university as well. Of course, it could be argued that theses measures would require a high financial plan but in my view, education should be one of the most important public services on what the government should invest.






One possible good effect of this is that adolescents would remain longer at school and their homes and therefore would be less exposed to danger in the streets and this could reduce crimes committed to teenagers. However, this is not entirely true since there is not guarantee that people aged eighteen would suffer less felonies. In addition, it seems to me that influenced by the constant media they could grow a deep anxiety that would make them behave even more violently once they go out. I believe that this is a problem of education which is a responsibility of teachers and more importantly parents, since it's their job to warn their children about the possible risks to make them more precocious without having to lock them in.
In conclusion, I have argued that in my view, the obligatory education system should not be extended but instead improved because the academic level is low and does not encourage students to go on to a higher level education. It is necessary, I think, to persuade adolescents to study post-obligatory education but not to force them to. 







