
In the last few years, in Spain, like in many other countries, the problems of obesity and
overweight have increased and 3,58% in women and 2,73% in men. This statistical
information is alarming something in a society with one of the best food diets of the
world: The Mediterranean diet. Nevertheless, some recent studies realized in Spain have
demonstrated that, what still is worse, 5% of the Spanish children suffer an excessive
obesity and some of them suffer from diabetes type 2, a disease that till now only was
detecting to adults people, which shows the wrong nourishment of the children and their
sedentary way of life. In this essay I intend to show, in my opinion, some possible
measures that might be taken to reduce this social problem.

For my part, I believe that one of the most important measures might be the discipline
in the meals on the part of parents. Spanish families have trusted the nourishment of
their children to the canteens of the schools. Because the majority of the present parents
can not do the lunch to their sons due to the work and the current parents see to their
sons very few hours per day and in the dinner food they usually give to their children
the food that they want. The canteens should be controlled by the parents because they
should know that types of food are eating their sons every day. Nevertheless, there are
people who think that the canteens must be supervised for relevant food control and that
the parents are not responsible for the quality food of the canteen at the schools. But I
think this theme should be dealt by the parents seriously because the parents do not
know that kind of food are eating the children at school and they should control the
quantity of fats that they consume a day for hereby control also their weight to the age
of the child.

In my opinion, another socially important measure is the construction of lots of parks
and green spaces, such as the Retiro Park, to promote the physical exercise and the
children can forget the sedentary life. First, the majority of children scarcely practice
sports. They have got used to stay at home playing with games of computer or with the
Playstation. In this way, the children instead of putting on the sports to play the football
in real life they prefer playing with virtual footballers with the Playstation. Second, the
parents both of them work and do not have time to take their sons to the nearby parks in
order that they play with the rest of the children. However, some sports facilities from
different towns maintain that the society promotes the sports activities in different
media and they consider that the present children do not want to do sports, they
prefer do other type of things in their free time. But personally speaking, I believe
children are only children and they are not able to know that is the best thing for them
themselves and I think that it is responsibility of the parents that your children take a
healthy and happy life.

The third most important measure from my own view might be that the public
authorities reached an agreement with the food industry to change the composition of
certain products. Because some products containing additives such as palm oil or other
saturated fats that should not be allowed for human consumption. The restriction of
these fats could reduce the number of obese people per year and eliminate 90% of heart
attacks. Since nutrition experts maintain that excessive consumption of foods rich in
carbohydrates and fats increases the risk of diseases such as diabetes or heart diseases.
For this reason, I believe that the media should not allow advertising of pastries or hamburgers from Burger's King. However, some people claim that the obese people must know all the ingredients that form the foods. But I think that there are too many obese people and this measure is necessary to help these townsmen.

In conclusion, I consider these measures might be a good idea to reduce this important
problem. This essay has dealt with three different measures such as a better discipline in the meals on the part of parents, the construction of lots of parks as the Retiro Park or the change of the composition of certain products. In my opinion, these measures will have to be carried out by the Spanish government, Nutrition experts and all families because this is a social problem and all of us are responsible for it..







