
Over the course of this decade, in Spain, the number of  maltreated women has increased startingly, so this problem has become the main women's mortality cause in our society. It seems that people have got used to the idea of women being murdered everyday by their husband, because some investigations have demonstrated that this issue appears as one of the last Spanish worries in spite of it has brought about more murders than the ETA'S  terrorism.
 However, the majority of people are still shocked when hearing about murders everyday on TV and they maintain that this problem will have to be treated by different sectors. In this essay I will suggest, in my opinion, some possible measures that might be taken to reduce this social problem.

First of all, I personally relieve that one of the most important measure could be remove all the prejudices that lead to the discrimination of women in all social sectors. Women have been excluded by the society in all aspects. Men and women are both of them people with the same rights but they are treated in a different way into the society by nature. For example: In a same job, a woman earns less money than a man or many manager jobs are dessigned by men and only for them. These types of sexist behaviours in our society should be eliminated because, in my opinion, they only reveal another male power show over women. Although, some people think that these values belong to a sexist society, this society still get benefits from this situation. For this reason they maintain that it's very difficult to change it. But I think this theme is claiming lots of human lifes and this issue must be dealt by the government seriously. 
 The problem is that, in my opinion, Spanish men do not accept the new role of women in the present society. They continue having into their minds that women have to do the housework and they must be at home with the children. But the place of women has changed in all aspects in twenty years. Nowadays, there are more women with the studies than men and the majority of women think that it is more important to keep a good job than to be a mother. The fact that the role of women has changed has to be accepted by the men and in this way there could decrease the number of female deaths.

In my opinion, another important measure for reducing the number of victims might be a better and bigger attendance to the victims of this social evil. First, the majority of deaths take place alter a separation or when they decide to rebuilt their sentimental life because the violent men do not accept that these women leave them and disobey them. Second, although the centres of welcome to the battered women advise these women to denounce the maltreatments, the authorities do not Project them, so it produces more victims and the number of deaths does not decrease at all. Nevertheless, there are people who do think that all the violent cases to women should be denounced to the police because, according to authorities, the only way to Project these women is making the relevant denunciation against their husband or boyfriend. But personally speaking, I believe that the present security to the gender violence victims is not enough. In my opinion, the public authority should give them economic aid and free boarding- house in order to help those battered women.






The third most important measure from my own view is the creation of new laws that cover hard punishment for the violent men. Because the agressors  violate the current 
measures of protection such as orders of withdrawal or fines and women are never protected and safer. Hard punishments could reduce the number of female deaths per year because the agressors can  think the society allows them to murder because they  break the laws and finally they get to kill his couple. For this reason I believe that the legislative and judiciary Spanish area must propose strict laws and do not allow that killing continue being such an easy thing for the men.
 However, some people claim that this kind of measure is difficult to carry out because it requires to assemble judges, it takes too long and it is necessary much money.
 But I think that this theme is a very present important problem and this help to women is  very necessary to eliminate this evil in our society.

To sum up, I consider these measures could be a good idea to solve this important problem. This essay has dealt with three differents measures such as to eliminate all social prejudices to women in many jobs, a better attendance to gender violence victims very necessary to reduce the female deaths or the creation of new laws to punish to violent men. In my opinion, these measures will have to carry out by the social centres, the Spanish government and public authority because women have the right to live like men, and no sexist cultura must deny life to any woman.

