
Nowadays, abortion is one of the most difficult problems to deal in our society. Over the last few years, abortion seems to become a very usual practice among women. Several researches have conclude that abortion have increased among teenagers specially. The progress of medicine gives the possibility of terminate a pregnancy. In Spain, abortion is only allowed before the third month of gestation, then these practices are totally illegal. There are a great range of opinions about this: some people think that it is a good way to stop an unwanted pregnancy, but some consider that abortion is a murder. In this essay I discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.
To begin with, I have to consider the specialists' viewpoint. In Spain, some doctors consider that abortion is an unnatural way to interrupt a pregnancy so they do not practice this method, but some think that abortion is another respectable decision of the mother so they consider that, after all, they are doctors so they have to do what the patient ask them. Some gynaecologists say that the embryo is not a foetus until the third month of gestation so they allow abortions in their surgeries. Spanish laws agree with this and allow abortions until the third month too.  On the other hand there are people who believe that from the fertilization, the resulting cell, is a life. That is why there is controversy about this subject. Nevertheless, all researches about the consequences of abortion have revealed that, all women that have aborted, suffer serious psychological problems like a blame feeling and future problems with her children and couples. This argument is totally reasonable because it is based on several objective medical researches.
 To continue, there are some arguments in favour of abortion. Many people believe that they are free to do with their lives and bodies what they want. Several researches have revealed that teenagers believe that abortion is a good thing. Nowadays, teenagers have sexual relations earlier and earlier, they do not take any precaution and the teen pregnancies' rates shoot up over this last years. Then they have to decide if they continue with the pregnancy or if they interrupt it. The common choice among teenagers is abortion because for many of them is the easiest way. According to the researches of the Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo, in 2005 the number of abortions in teenagers was a 6, 57% higher than in 1996. This means that abortion has become more popular over the last 10 years among teenagers. The problem of this argument is that teenagers have not a strong estimation of all the possibilities they have.


On the other hand, there are some arguments against abortion. The Episcopal Conference has pronounced itself against abortion. The Church claims that abortion is another way of murdering. They strongly believe that every single life must be respected and they consider the embryo as a human life. They give some Biblical quotations about what Jesus Christ supposes to tell about human life. Apart from Church, there are some people that disagree with abortion because of their ethics. This point of view is also supported by some doctors who not allowed abortions in their surgeries. The difficulty is for the doctor to know where ends their duty and where starts their ethics. This seems a reasonable way to treat this subject but again ethics and beliefs play a part in this argument.
There are other arguments which are more flexible. Some people think that the best way to deal abortion is being flexible; this means that people should not give their opinion rashly. They think abortion is not an easy thing, so they believe that the opinion could change in each situation. There are many causes which could push you to abortion: teen pregnancy, rape, unwanted pregnancy, etc. And in each case the point of view can change. This is an aseptic viewpoint, it analyze the solution in each situation which is totally reasonable.
In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments both defending and condemning abortion. Some of them deal with ethics and the way each person consider what is or not a life. Other arguments accept abortion only in some extreme cases like for example in a situation of a pregnancy caused by a rape. All the viewpoints are quite reasonable and, depending on each person's beliefs, each point of view could be more accurate.  

 
