
In Spain, 16-year-olds are allowed to leave school because obligatory education finishes. Nowadays, many students leave school for many reasons: They do not like studying, they want to work or simply they have to leave it. Apart from that, Spain has one of the worst educational programs in all Europe. Some researchers have shown that the Spanish system has some serious weaknesses. People are afraid because Spanish students' knowledge is smaller than the other community students' knowledge. In this essay I will attempt to argue that, in my view, students need to be in school until they have the necessary and basic education adapted to the European level which is a bit higher than the Spanish one.
First of all, I personally believe that students are not mature enough to leave school at sixteen. Teenagers do not know what they really want to do with their lives so they should not decide what the great age to leave school is. They should be under "vigilance" and one of the reasons why I believe it, is that they are not of age so they depend on an adult. On the other hand, some people think that teenagers have to live their life, they have to fail and then go on, but, from my point of view, this should be only in some aspects of their life not in education, teenagers need to learn minimum concepts in school: They have to defend their selves in the scientific scope, literary scope, etc.They have to know which are the important events which have occurred in world's history. To sum up, they have to be cultured and instructed people.
Then, personally speaking, I think the education in Spain has to be less specialized. Some statistics have revealed that Spain, in education issues, is at the bottom of Europe. According to those statistics, Finland gives their students the best education. Their system is based on the old German model which consists in two levels: Vocational and Academic systems. In particular, an important difference to other systems is that there is no common "youth school"  -  ages 15-19 are spent either in a trade school, or in an academic-oriented upper secondary school. Trade school graduates may enter the workforce directly after graduation. The last year is used to make a "Final Project" in which they have to do a research about a concrete theme. With this system, Finnish students have an extensive knowledge about a great variety of scopes which means, in my view, the "ideal" level of education.

It has been researched that people who leave school at the age of 16, have worst conditions in their jobs (salary, timetable, etc), that is because they have a very basic education so they can only access to some conditions. Some people think that it is good for teenagers learn the meaning of the word "work" so they agree when students leave school when obligatory education finishes and encourage them to apply for a job. Me, on the other hand, I strongly believe that teenagers are, first of all, teenagers. They have to prepare their selves and learn everything they can and when they were on age and finish the school, if they do not want to go to university, could apply for a job and develop a good work. The importance of developing a good work is huge. If they do their job well, the industry grows up, and if the industry grows up, the economy of the country grows with it and that means more money for the citizens and the circle begins another time. Their education level has effects on the whole country structure.
To conclude, in my view, obligatory education should be up to 18 years because students need to have some minimum knowledge including a small specialization which will permit the student manage in several scopes. I personally believe that if we continue in this way, we may end up with a rather "functional illiterate" and inefficient country whose workers will not reach the objectives of the European Community and that will affect to the correct developing of the country. 

