 
 
  


 

Nowadays the traffic jams have increased considerably.All days a lot of people have problems when they are driving for example, they can' t arrive on time, they spend too many hours in the car.... These traffic problems have happened because of the increased of population in the last years, the works that now is making in our city... So in this essay i will propose some solutions to this problem that affects to millions of people and make people waste time in their cars day by day.

  

First I think that traffic jams are inevitable in big cities like Madrid; it is obvious that hardly all people begin their jobs at the same part of the day ...."the morning" so as a result all the roads are full of cars. Personally this problem only may have a solution and it has to be thought by the government.Recently newpapers, magaxines have publied that the government have a plan to reduce traffic jams in the busiest roads in our city like (M40, M45, M30). But usually the plans made by the government take too much time and people will continue wasting their time.



A lot of technologycal advances have been made, we can avoid traffic jams only by using the mobile phone. Mobyle phone can say where are the biggest traffic jams, in wich roads, so we can use it in order to avoid going that roads, in my view that is a good thing because we can change the route but probably the new route that you're choosen is crowded too.

Public transport might be a solution; in my view is good to use it because it isn't contaminant.Every year the government make improvements for the public transport, they expand it , they introduce new wagons...but it has an important disavantage...it is quite slow so people couldn't arrive on time to their destinies.

 

To conclude.... the technology, the plans of the government, and the public transport are solutions that isn't clear yet, so for this problem without any clear solution I'll give you some advices about how to survive a traffic jam: First you must wear confortable clothes (like a track-suit or if you wear a suit you can take out the tie), second you never meet with a person in an exact hour, and the most important to think POSITIVE.

 

