           




                     Since developed countries are able of supporting a public system of education, it has been born a controversy around the obligatory character of that. Teenagers who aren't eighteen years yet should have got the right of conclude their school education or not? This essay is going to tackle this subject, focusing on a specific aspect: are students too lazy to make a real effort or their necessities aren't satisfied by education system?
         
    It seems to me that the actual education system fails: recent studies indicate that school failure reaches very high rate: around 70% in high schools, where it's studied obligatory education. Why the government has to pay millions of euros or dollars for thousands of teenagers who don't want study, or whose mental capacity isn't enough to follow the secondary education? In my opinion, children who fail should be moved over a system which doesn't work correctly. A new system should be proved with them, and if that don't work, by one cause or by another, the student would have to be recommended to leave school. Nevertheless, a minor has never to be separated from educative community if he/she doesn't want; he/she has to receive the opportunity of educating him/herself. The question is the next: why too many teenagers whish to conclude their studies so prematurely? One possible argument is that young people are irresponsible and very impatient; that's why they choose the fastest way. They believe that it's also the easiest way, but there are too wrong: a survey carried out by the Education Ministry which was published in 2006 reveals that most of adult population (between twenty-five and forty years) who left their studies under eighteen nowadays apologize. They aren't happy because of their job, and they think that if they had continued school, their social and economical situation would be better.








  Some of the evidence shows that nobody can obligate a teenager to study: only experience will teach him. Nor severe punishments nor hopeful promises can convince him when he feels himself frustrated. School appears as a diary evidence of how much silly or lazy he is, so he wants to leave. It's logical. So, from my point of view, school mustn't be obligatory for anyone who don't want get ready to catch this responsibility, but is getting ready to lose their time, their parents' and government's money, and a place in a school in which a lot of children would wish to be, although they can not. Most of Secondary teachers think therefore and are anxious for teaching really interesting people.

  In conclusion, education must be an opportunity which every person, overcoat the children, deserve to have got. However, there doesn't exist a specific age to conclude the study: it depends on every person. Everybody is different and laws cannot judge a whole country's population to determinate a minimum age to leave school. 
