  In developed countries, the possibility of finishing with a pregnancy has generated controversy. The most asked questions are: when does real life start? Have parents got right to kill their future children? In this essay I will try to point out the different arguments concerning in abortion.


  Most of people can claim that children's murder is one of most horrible of crimes and it must be very seriously punished, but, can a embryo be considered a child? Scientific community says that life starts in the moment in which masculine cell and feminine cell link themselves. The result is the zygoto, the future embryo. Nevertheless, it isn't considered like a person, because it isn't able of thinking, feeling, acting, and so on. It is only able of growing up and multiplying itself. Approximately seven days later, it is created the embryo. Scientists claim that the embryo becomes a person when it is three months old, because principal organs are formed, although they aren't completely developed. Since three months further on, the embryo starts to be named foetus. Foetus isn't considered a person yet by scientists, because it lacks intelligence. According to Dr. Sánchez Bueno, no: "nor embryos, nor foetus, nor babies under nine-twelve months can be considered people: they only are human creatures. A person is a intelligent being." Of course, Dr. Sánchez Bueno isn't speaking about intelligence to solve mathematical problems, but self conscience and will.


  Spanish law allows abortion, under determinate circumstances, when pregnancy is under three months. Those circumstances are: mother's violation, an important health's damage in future child (it has to be a doctor's diagnosis), or a possible psychological or health damage in the mother (it also has to be a medical diagnosis). When the reason is medical, the period of abortion can be risen even more, because mothers don't use to notice their babies' problems until the pregnancy is very advanced. Perhaps that's why the most useful test to prove foetus' state is the amniocentesis, which is recommended to be practiced between the week sixteen and twenty four. Definitively, laws are relatively permissive respect to abortion: any woman who cited that taking care of a baby, or giving it in adoption, would cause her a psychological trauma, will be allowed to abort.


  On the other hand, what's about women who aren't allowed to abort by laws? They are obligated to abort in private clinics, perhaps too expensive, or in some cheaper clinics, perhaps without the right hygienic conditions. They can become sterile for ever, seriously hurt, or even died. That's why most of feminist associations defend abortion over any circumstance. Also, they claim that women are free to do what they want with their bodies (though they don't speak about rights' of father), and that women mustn't be obligated to pass a pregnancy and a birth. Besides, taking care of a child when parents don't wish his birth doesn't seem to be a good idea, because child won't be enough loved. If economical situation isn't good, child won't be enough cared (even fed). If the familiar situation isn't right, child will feel himself sad because of this issue; he even can feel himself guilty of their parent's unhappiness. 




  In spite of this, Church absolutely refuses the abortion, because it thinks that nobody has got the right to conclude any kind of human life: God is the creator of everything which exists, so people aren't the chosen to decide when life can finish or not. Besides, Church refuses the use of contraceptive methods, because men and women  - especially those- must be virgin when they get married, and their marriage should be blessed with a lot of children. Church proposes as solution abstention of sexual relations until the (married) couple was prepared to have got children.


  To conclude, there are many arguments in favour and against abortion. The solutions are many too: since the abstention of sexual activity to the free abortion, all have to be examined carefully to choose the best. Government should be the responsible to regulate abortion conditions, always with help from scientists. However, the best solution to abortion problems seems to be one: the prevention of unwished pregnancies.


