

     In 1886 the first car was created, since then the production of car have multiplied with what traffic problems have appear. This trouble is considered by some people an important issue to deal with. As a result of cars, traffic can cause some problems such as: pollution, accidents, stress... which too many people can see themselves affected. In this essay I will suggest some solutions, that in my view, could help to reduce these problems.
     
     One solution could be make some conscious campaigns about how cars pollute the air and show others alternatives that we can do to avoid the pollution. Some studies show that the 48% to the emissions to the air are because of the transportation so if people, for example, used public transportation or shared cars to go to work it could reduce a lot this percentage. However, some people would not like the public transportation because of they must follow a schedule or  maybe too many people  in the bus or in the train, but I think that it has the advantage of which it is cheaper and the users will save money.
     
     Another possibility can be created a new public transportation like a street car. One of this will decrease  the traffic, it will avoid jams and accidents since it circulates around a special lane and exclusive for it. Nevertheless,  people might think that expend money to make a lane for the street car would be waste money, although, in my opinion, in the long term will help all to have better public transport by which to move to us.
     
     In some other European countries have others alternatives, for example, in Amsterdam they use a bicycle service. It is the method which I like the most because almost everyone has one, so they do not have to spell more money to buy one, next because you can park almost in everywhere and one important reason: it does not pollute. Although some citizens would not like the idea because they prefer drive their own cars but, it appears to me, that the use of bicycle helps to release stress and make you do exercises, in addition bicycle does not need gas so, once again, we will save money.
     
     So then, we have seen that traffic problems can cause some inconveniences which people can be seriously affected. The most important problems to which I have been trying to give solutions, seems to be: pollution, accidents and stress. To conclude, I believe that unless people start using others alternatives to cars traffic problems are still going to be a struggle to everyone and the proposed solutions do not serve for anything.










