

     
     Abortion has been a really controversial subject in recent decades. The advance of medical techniques have helped to improve the way to facilitate to the mother does away with her child. However, some institutions or groups are not according with the method by which abortion is made. In spite of this, abortion in some case is legal but in the most of cases is not morally seen right. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about if abortion is considered correct or incorrect.
     
     To begin with, there are several arguments against abortion. Some studies made in USA shown that abortion can cause physical sequels such as: cancer of breast, cancer of  ovaries, cancer of liver ...and in the extreme case the death of patient because of infections, haemorrhages, anaesthesia, embolism...etc. In Canada, in Finland, in Swiss, in France, in Spain and in USA were made some investigations and the results shown that abortion can also cause psychological sequels for example depression, hostility and even suicide, the "Real academy of obstetrics" has demonstrated that the 59% of women, who have been  made an abortion, have tried to suicide or, at least, they thought about it.
     
      In addition to this, there is another strong viewpoint against abortion maintained by religious people, who create a moral problem. The church supports that abortion is the same to kill someone, and in this case even more wrong because it is killed a undefended child. They argued that with the fifth order in which it said " Do not kill" and also with others chapters of the Bible (Mt.19, 17; Sal. 139/138, 16; Hch 5,29...)in which all of these talk about the right to live and to obey God and only He has the right to choose who live and who die. 
     
     There are other arguments related with abortion, which depend on the degree of the fetus, the danger of the mother, and several points more that it is going to show here. First, some people would argue that if a women has been violated could be considered the right to abortion since the woman has been forced and the child is undesired, that it is what doctors called an 'sentimental abortion'. Second, can be considered the 'indirect abortion' like another option, in this case is when the mother's life is in danger, but it is not only to save mother's life, doctors try to save baby's life too, although in most of case the baby doesn't survive.
     
     More arguments in which abortion could be considered accepted is when the child has some deficiencies, it is called an 'eugenic abortion'. Some people will agree that the parents will have problems to take care of the child and it will cost a lot of money for them. Another problem that could be measured  is that there are a lot of clandestine abortions which encourage the risk of the mother to some diseases or even to die because sometimes the way to apply this surgeries is very unclean and unsafe. It is reasonable to suggest abortion as legal for what women don't have to look for other illegal alternatives.
     
     
     
     
     
     On the other hand, one of the main arguments in favour  in which  some people agree with is that the child until the third month could not be not considered as a child so it would not have any rights. Some researchers believe that give to the set of functional cells the same rights and the same status of a child it is to go against the international convention of the right of the child. In consequence of this, many people would judge the term "kill a child", since many people will not considered a fetus as a kid so it is reasonable to argue that any crime it is committed.
     
     There could be still others argument in favour of abortion. One of this could be support because the child should be desire. Some people could argue that if a child is not "planned" the consequences of that will be paid against the child, because sometimes the mother could be violent with the baby for the reason that she will blame the kid. Other reason that apparently could be true is that the mother should choose what to do because is her body. Some patients could agree that it will be like a aesthetic surgery because it is just a modification of the body.
     
     
     In conclusion, we can see that there are many the arguments against which are physical and psychological danger and the moral problems planned by church, which could be consider a strong point against to legalization of the abortion, and by the other hand many arguments if favour such as the baby could be not measured as a child, that the baby reasonability should be considered a "desire kid" and that women might have the rights to choose about their bodies. On balance of this, abortion  might be seen as a bad idea if there are not some reasonable reasons because many people could see it as a crime with the child and as a danger for the mother.
     
     
     
     
     
     



