

There are a lot of different opinions about if abortion is something good to do or bad to do. Abortion is the intentioned interruption of a pregnancy, and there are some people that have wanted to abort, in one moment or another of their lives, because of some different reasons, like for example girls that have been violated, or women that are pregnant but they didn't want to have a baby. There are some people that think that abortion should be legal, and there are some others that don't think so. In this essay we are going to see different opinions about it.

One of the groups that definitely think that abortion is wrong and that it should be illegal is the Catholic Church. Their thoughts and believes are that abortion is murder and that you are killing somebody if you practise it. They say that at the very first day of pregnancy, the cell inside the woman's body is already a new life, a new human being, and that's why they think that if you abort, that means that you are killing your children. They also feel that it goes against what's natural, and against the god's law. It's written in the Bible, it's holly scriptures, so that's why they believe so. There are loads of catholic people in all over the world, so most of them believe what church says.

Other people may think that abortion shouldn't be illegal, but very controlled. They are against it, but they accept it in some specific cases, and with medical supervision, not for example in illegal clinics. They believe that the reason for an abortion must be very justified, and as it's been said before, controlled. For example, if a woman wants to abort, she would need to say why and demonstrate that what she says is true, and then a medical committee would decide if her reasons are enough or not. They feel that all the valid and not valid reasons must be previously decided by referendum, because if not there will be a lot of problems when deciding and when accepting what's been said by the committee.

There are also a lot of people that think that abortion should be legal and they're totally in favour of it. They think that there are mothers the ones who have to decide whether if they want to have the baby or not, and that when the baby isn't born yet he hasn't got life, so it wouldn't be a murder. They also feel that is better to abort than to have a baby that you don't want to have, because a lot of children can be badly treated because of that. Moreover, there are some babies that have mental handicaps or some of this type of problems and may happen that their parents can't take care of them (because they don't have time or enough money), and there are also women that accidentally get pregnant and that don't have enough means for bring up their baby, so they should have the right to abort.

In conclusion, there are a lot of different points of view about if abortion is right or wrong. As we've seen in this essay Catholic Church is totally against it because they think that is a murder and that is not natural; other people have a not that much radical opinion about abortion and they think that it's debatable, depending on the circumstances; and another people do really think that abortion should be legal and that is a good think to do if you don't want to have that baby or if you don't have enough means to do that. One possible solution to these different opinions could be to make a referendum in each different part of the world, and approve by law what most of the population in one determinate area believes about abortion.
