

One of the main problems in big cities like Madrid is traffic. It causes contamination, and creates a lot of elements that damage the atmosphere and contribute to the climatic change that will soon have very bad consequences. Contamination also has very bad effects on people's health: almost every of the European cities residents (a 97%) are exposed to atmosphere contamination levels that transcend the quality objectives fixed BY the European Union for particles, for ozone at the level of the floor (44%) and for the NO2 (14%)87. Moreover citizens are exposed to noise levels over the 55 dB recommended BY the Mundial health organisation. This provokes big discomforts and has a negative effect in sleep and life quality. In this essay I'm going to give some solutions that I personally think can reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.

To begin with, if public transport, such as the subway and trains, were improved, traffic will be reduced. In my opinion Governments should make improvements in this kind of transport, like making more bus stops and train or subway stations, like making more frequent trains, like making them faster or even like making them bigger, and this way, people would use public transport much more. A lot of people might argue that taking their cars is faster and better, and that public transport in Madrid sometimes has delays and people don't want to be late for work, or to be waiting at the station for very long. However I disagree with this because there's always a lot of traffic and you can be stopped because you can't go on because of other cars for a lot of time, and in those cases people tend to get nervous, so is neither faster nor better.  

I also think that this solution could be complemented with this one: Making more paths and pedestrian ways, and also for bicycles, so that people can use them instead of driving their cars. There are a lot of people that don't live very far from their works, or that take the car for going everywhere, even if it's near. If there where more of this paths for pedestrians and bicycles, and those where improved, people would use them, and it's a healthier and a more enjoyable way of getting to places near where you are. However some people feel that taking their cars is more comfortable and that they won't waste their time taking their bicycles or going by foot. Even though I would argue that walking or riding a bike is a much healthier way of going to places than sitting in a car and creating pollution.

To finish I would say that another solution that could solve traffic problems in Madrid is to put more trolls in roads and highways, or to make them more expensive. Thereby people would choose another method to go where they want to go, for not to pay when they get to the troll and traffic will be reduced, and therefore there will be less contamination and health problems. It could be argued and a lot of people may think that the fact that he or she is the only one that doesn't use his or her car won't reduce contamination, and that there are a lot of other things that cause contamination. I would say that I strongly believe that cars are one of the main reasons of pollution nowadays, and that even if only one person doesn't use always a car, the contamination will be reduced, and there will be more people like he or she each time.
 
In conclusion there are a lot of things that we can do to reduce traffic problems in Madrid. As I have shown, I think that the better and most effective ones are making a better public transport, making paths for pedestrians and bicycles and putting more trolls in the roads. Considering on this points, I think we all should try to reduce traffic, because it causes really serious problems that besides will have terrible consequences to our health and planet.




                                                                                    
                                                                                 
