     Nowadays, the war is used as a method to fight against terrorism. This is a very controversial theme in which people have different viewpoints and, in most cases, these is due to the fact that the politicians "manipulate" the masses  - ordinary people- to make them believe what is right or wrong. In the world we live today there are most people who believe that war is the cause for terrorism; however, other people think that is the only method to fight against it, and other people feel that it is a good method but it is not always right to use it. So, in this essay I am going show the different viewpoint that people have about if using war against terrorism has made the world a safer place.
     One point of view is that war causes terrorism, so then, the world is not safer thanks to this. First, the war is an aggressive way that the only things that bring us are death and destruction, not only in the battlefield but in our countries and homes. Second, the countries against which that the first world fights are those that make our city unsafe because they are who terrify our society with their terrorist attacks, causing us pain, suffer, death and destruction. Third, the same war promotes the hate between races, so then our society has turn into an each one in which we can't trust each one to another. Although these arguments seems very convincing, it could be argued that terrorism could be worse, and as a consequence the world would be less safer, if some countries don't fight against it.
     However, some people believe that war is the only way to fight against terrorism and make the world a safer place. On one hand, war is the only way that remains us when being tactfully doesn't work and history proves that the enemy have strong believes and they prefer death to be yielded, and they will never give up unless they have what they want. On the other hand most people, among them politicians, believe that war is the only way to guarantee the supremacy of a country, and therefore the peace for itself and its allies, no matter who dies or lives. Although these arguments seems to persuasive, it has certain weaknesses because some people would argue that we can reach an agreement to give them what they want, even if it means to live without luxury.
     Other point of view could be that war is not necessary, but is good for politicians. First, some people feel that nowadays there are a lot of measures to avoid war; however politicians need this "sell" security to the masses, and that is a way winning votes. Second, it could be argued that all the human beings are reasonable so we all can understand the reasons from the other part involved and find a good solution for each part. Third, some people think that war is not fair for those families whose sons and daughters are fighting and dying in the battlefield for an unfair cause that is in politicians and on business men hands to solve it. Even it seems to be a good point, is reasonable to argue that most of these soldiers who go to war in most cases are volunteers; moreover these politicians who send them to war, are those that we once elected.
     To conclude, this essay has considered some viewpoints about war against terrorism, and if this fight has made the world safer. Some people say that war causes terrorism, other that war is the only method to fight terrorism, and other people argued that war is not necessary and that this is a political instrument. This is a very controversial theme but if we are able to solve it we could save many lives.
