      One of the biggest problems for traffic in Madrid is that almost every person has a car. That is a fact that contributes to the jams of traffic, especially in the morning, when people is going to work, and in the afternoon, when this same people are coming back to their houses; in Madrid, as in other cities in the world, this happens at the entrances of the city from adjacent towns as in the interior of the own city. This traffic jams, obviously produce contamination, pollution and many others agents that make the life in the biggest cities hard and in many cases unbearable due to the stress produced by the same jams. So in this essay I try to explain, from my point of view, which are the best possible solutions to the traffic problems in Madrid.
      To begin with, the subway is helping to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid but it seems that this is not enough. On one hand, in Madrid there is a great underground system, which is called "Metro", and nowadays is the fourth largest in Europe after London, Moscow, and Paris. The Madrid metro is used by hundreds of people every day. In spite of it is difficult to get people use the public transport, many people has their own car, and prefer using it instead of using another way of travelling. Nevertheless, Madrid metro connect the main parts of the city with each other, and, in my view, this make easier to people go from one place to another, in a short period of time, without worries such us the parking place or getting in a jam for an hour. On the other hand, most people believe that in the subway someone is going to steal them or, in the case of being a woman, that some is going touch us in an inappropriate way; still that, I disagree with this because there is a lot security personal at the subway and it is watched by a very extended surveillance system, so I think that there is not almost any possibility that it could happen to you.
      Other possible solution would be if, for instance, a group of partners arrange to share a car to go to work. That solution could be possible if they create a well organized system, planning their timetable. Even it is a good system to reduce the particular cars circulation most people disagree with it due it his complexity; however I disagree with it, because if people carry out this system, they will save a lot of their own time, so they will be free to do other things like being with their families.
      Other solution linked with the idea above is to apply a restriction system to cars circulation depending on their number plate. This system is applied in other cities as Bogotá in Colombia, where is called "pico y placa"; is a successful system, not only in my view because the facts support it, to clear the city, this have been implanted three years ago and is based on, according to the last number of the number plate, the government published every year, the number of those cars which should not circulate on the respective day of the week on the hours with most traffic jam, hours that have been called "horas pico", those number are published every day in the newspaper as a reminder. However this system could have some enemies at the moment of his implantation because people will not be arranged to leave their cars and going on public transport or sharing cars with other people; nevertheless, I disagree with it because the facts show us that this is a very good system to clear the city of cars circulation avoiding those traffic jams, and more important the contamination produced by them.
      To conclude, I have given, from my point of view, some possible solutions to traffic problems in Madrid, some of them could be carried out with the only contribution of people, such us the use of Metro or sharing cars to go to work. However, others like "pico y placa" should be taken by the government to make people avoid the use of his cars in the critical hour for circulation.
