
      The traffic in madrid is one of the problems that have increased notoriously during the last years since there are more cars that circulate in the city and one of the consecuences has been that there are more traffic jams. However, many people don't seem to agree when searching for solutions, because most people look for their own benefits and advantages. In this essay i will discuss some solutions to this problem, focusing on the public transport as an alternative.

In my view the parkingmeters can be one of the possible solutions, above all in the historic centres because this would prevent people to use their cars when they can take the public transport.  However, still many people think that it's not a very good idea because it is prejudicial for those who have the need to use their cars to move around the city. I would argue that altough it might prejudice some of the population, this will succeed. At least there will be less cars circulating because people won't be willing to pay for a parking lot and this will cause a traffic decrease.

I personally believe that another solution is to have more public transportation available and also make an improvement in this kind of instalations, because this would encourage and convince people to use them instead of using their own cars. On the other hand, one of the reasons of why people don't use it, is because they are unhappy with the lack of commitment of these types of transportation because of their inpuntuality and unfrequency. Appears to me that by taking in account this action of having more public transportation available, as the 55 kilometres of underground that have been inaugurated within the last five months, as a consequence there will be a decrease of the environmental pollution, and at the same time the traffic will decrease because there will be less cars circulating in the city.

For my part, having closed streets to the traffic is one of the most drastic solutions that the goverment has applied to reduce the traffic in Madrid. Nevertheless, most of the people think that it's like an imposition, because they argue that their opinion is not considered and because of this, they don't have the possibility to choose. I would argue that if they finally been able to not use their cars and find another type of transportation such as buses, taxis, etc, why didn't they think about this alternative long time ago so that it would avoid since the beginning the traffic jams and it would help not to contaminate the environment.

So then, this essay has considered some of the several possible solutions to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid. Such as: installing parkingmeters, having more public transportation available and not allowing the entrance to private cars to some specific streets. However, i think that no matter what kind of solutions the government applies to reduce this traffic problem, it would never have an end, because cars will still be sold while there are people who keep buying them.
