



      Abortion has been one of the latest subject disscused. This has been because of the legalization of this type of intervention in certain countries and because certain politic groups sympathise with it. Furthermore, moral and religious implications have caused the immediate reaction of many people in favour and against this way of thinking or opinion about abortion. However, still many countries don't view as a right, or something legal, the possibility of letting someone die. In this essay i will try to point out some different arguments that deal with this issue.

To begin with, one of the possible and may be a main argument in favour, is when the reason of why a woman got pregnant is because she has been raped. In that case most women argue that they prefer to abort because they are afraid that the baby might make them remember, or they wanted to have a child, but with a person that they love, or their partner. Moreover, some women can't raise and maintain a baby, so they think that it's better to abort than to make them have a miserable life. However, against this it can be pointed that there are other possible solutions which may not require the abortion as the only solution, such as adoption.

There are other arguments regarding abortion, which do not defend or aprove it in a hundred per cent way. It can be said that their way of thinking that make them decide to abort or not depends on the circumstances. For example, many say that if they know that the baby will have some degenerative disease or a painful chronic illness, a way to finish with that agony for the baby as for the parents would be through abortion. Altough they also think that if the possibility of abortion is because the parents didn't take preventions, then, is not a justify cause, and in that case, the mother shouldn't carry on with the abortion. This seems to be a reasonable argument, although not totally fair for those who like Beethoven, if he wasn't born, we would not have enjoy any of his more than 138 compositions. So, although this viewpoint appears to be convincing, it has certain weaknesses because we cannot always foresee if abortion would be really the best solution and decision made as it has been seen in some cases through history. 

One of the strong arguments that is fighting against it's legalization is the religious one. Their arguments are based and supported by christian principles and they defend that it isn't in human hands to play as if we were God. The problem for religious people is that by passing it, it would violate a christian law that has been into effect for centuries. However, this could be considered as an unrealistic perspective, since people that are not religious might say that that law has been writen so long ago that it's validity no longer exists, or at least musn't be taken in account. However, it seems logical that religious people might still think that their believes and principles are unquestionable and because of that they do not view violating such an important law that is the right of living and not the one to decide to let someone die as a possibility.

In conclusion, we can see that there are arguments which defend and condem abortion, and others who think in a neutral way. Some of them deal with the freedom of choosing whatever they think is the best solution, and others deal with the condition of people as the children of God and therefore not the owners of their lives. Other arguments accept abortion only in some circumstances and reject it in others. The mid-point arguments seem to be more reasonable in a general way since not everyone is religious, because it may be unfair that an agnostic person who wants to abort is not allowed to because of a religion law.
