       Nowadays, the education system in Spain is subject to discussions of all kinds. There are people who are in favour of it because they think that this system is good for students. There are also people who are completely against it because they think it has serious consequences like violence in class. But there are also other people who think that the system doesn't have the necessary authority. In this essay I am going to talk about every point of view, giving an explanation of each one.
       The most important reason that people in favour of the education system give is that this system favours the student in so many ways. According to the L.O.G.S.E, Spanish education system has several purposes, some of which I am going to enumerate: the totally development of the personality of the student; the training based on the respect of the rights of each one, tolerance and freedom; the acquisition of intellectual abilities; the training for professional activities; the participation and collaboration of parents and tutors so that the objectives of education can be carried out; the relation with the economic, social and cultural environment, etc. Those people who are in favour of the system agree on the suitability for the students of the proposals enumerated before. But some of the evidence shows that in practice those objectives not always have the wanted success. Moreover, other reason given by people in favour of the education system is that this system promotes a lay education. Catholic people, obviously, disagree with this point of view because they think the education system must include the study of catholic religion.
 	One of the main arguments against the education system is the increase of violence in school. It is widely accepted that it has increased but...Why? Some people believe that the main reason is that teachers have lost their authority and they have no control on their pupils. This can be, of course, as people against the education system claim, the teachers' fault but the cause of the increase of violence in class cannot be only responsibility of teachers but of the students' parents in addition to the students themselves. If parents don't give their sons and daughters a good education, based on respect and tolerance, students will not behave in a good way in class. There are also people who think that the reason for so much violence in class is the determination of the society which centres in looking for the rights of each one but forgetting the obligations of each one. But it must be accepted that violence in class is not only fault of the current education system, is to say, there are people who think that violence in class would have appeared with this education system or other but it would surely have appeared at any rate.
 	Finally, I am going to talk about those people who think that the current education system is hardly important in relation to the education in Spain. I mean that there are people who think that the opinion of the population is more influential than the Spanish education system itself. Those people are supported by facts like that in which the students, just after coming home from school, sit on the sofa and start watching TV programmes in which don't appear the values learnt on class. Instead of that, people appearing in that programmes behave just in the opposite way the Spanish education system claims: "the training based on the respect of the rights of each one, tolerance and freedom".	
       To conclude, it can be said that the Spanish education system is submitted to the opinion of the population, which can be divided into three: people who totally agree with the system, arguing that it is very suitable for the student and that it promotes a lay education; people who are totally against it, arguing that it has caused the increase of violence in class; and, finally, people who think that the system doesn't influence like the opinion of the population does. 
