
     Nowadays inmigration in Spain is subject to discussion of all kinds. There are people who are in favour of it because they think that there are many people who need some help. There are also people who are completely against because they think it has serious consequences like violence in the streets or robberies. But there are also other people who don't mind if this people came or not to Spain. In this essay I am going to talk about every point of view, giving an explanation of each one.

     The most important reason that people in favour of inmigration give is that the inmigrants work in many places that Spanish people don't want work. And for this reason Nation Health Service in Spain is keeping. Those people who are in favour of this cause give on same as Spanish society are going to pillage other countries such as Africa, the inmigrants came to Spain to ear some money too. Moreover, other reason given by people in favour of inmigrants is that we have to understand that same as them, we were inmigrants in other years too.

     One of the main arguments of the people who are in against of inmigration is the preoccupation of the many robberies that these people cause. But some people believe that these robberies aren't caused by inmigration people. Some of them yet, but many other no. But this is a problem that Spanish people usually englobes to all of them. There also people who think that the people who came from other countries don't want to joiny to our live. Some Spanish people think that there are who must to share our customs. The inmigrants want to teach us their customs and creencies. And many other people who aren't racist feel bad for it and sometimes of a consequence of it they are a little racist.

     Finally I am going to talk about those people who don't mind that inmigrants came to Spain. I mean that there are people who think that inmigrants must came to Spain to work but not to robber or do bad things. This people said that in Spain there are a lot of work for inmigrant that Spanish people don't want. And they are free to came to Spain but when they came here, they should respect the Spanish society, customs and all of these things. And the people who share this knowledge said that although they are free to came to Spain to work, inmigrants don't have to robber, killed people or some things like that because Spanish people don't believe them when they came to Spain and they said that they came to work and they are good people.

     To conclude, it can be said that inmigration is submitted to the opinion to the population, which can be divided into three: people who are totally agree with the inmigration, arguin that it is very suitable for the society and Nation Health Service; people who are totally against it, arguing that it has caused that Spanish people were less secure in the streets; and finally, people who think that inmigration doesn't influence like the opinion of the population does.



