
     Since a long time to nowadays the world had envolved a lot and had developed some good and bad aspects. This aspects are the worrying social issues. The most important social issues, in my opinion, are drugs and some illness such as cancer and AIDS. This social issues are provocating a deteriored of the world. This deteriored is caused by the multiples and unnecessary death, provodated by the factors I have already mencioned.

     First of all I have to say that in the world are producing a lot of deaths a consecuence of wars, fighters, etc. But one of the principal causes of death in our country is the AIDS. This illness destroy the immunity of the body and leave the person who suffer it without defences. Secondary de AIDS will be acquired by a lot of process. There are one process that it is the most common. It consist in use an infected sirynge and share it whit other persons. This process only can be stopped if the people who are  drug addict  don't share the same sirynge with other persons. Other process to contagious are do a piercing and tattoos, bus this metod is  a few frecuently in Spanish people because this tecnics have a lot of security in their application.  Over all this, the contagious can be prevented using the condom in the sexual relations because this manner is the first consecuence of acquiration  the AIDS.

     I speak about AIDS such as one of the most important causes of death in the world but I have to speak about the horrible illness such cancer too. Firstly I have to said that cancer is an illness that provocates a multiplication of the cells. This illness is very serious and could provocate the death. On secondary place, cancer can be an hereditary illness an it can be provocated by quimic substances, radiation, infeccion and virus too. Previosly I had said that the cancer could be a mortal illness but it can prevented with a good diet, not smoking, and don't drinking a lot of alcoholic drinks because this sustances could be what provokes the different cancers.

     But all of the causes of death in the world not only are provocated for an illness, but drugs form the other biggest group. To beginning the drugs are substances who provocate dependence in the person who take it. This dependence can be physical and phycoloal with some drugs such as alcohol. And only phycological with some drugs such as hachic and marihuana. In addition of these, drugs can cause some effects. The most normal effects are hallucinations, stimulation with drugs such as cocaine and narcotics effects, which are capace to sleep a person. Other negative consecuence about drugs are the social factors such as the conflicts with other persons when they are addicts drugs: the economic factors, because they haven't money to paid and they have debts and they organized groups who attent to the rest of the people; and to finish the legal factors such as the abuse of drugs which aren't allowed.

     In conclusion the world are become crazy for moment. Each time there are more people with AIDS and for it the dies. Each time there are more people who consume drugs and each time there are more death persons a consecuence of there horrible illness that is cancer. In this essay I want to reflect the importance about a good, healthy and cuidated live. With this little advice, you won't be contagious with all the social issues that in my point of view are the most dangerous. The consecuency about a healthy live, without drugs and more prevencion, means a lot of years of live more.

