
	Nowadays, one of the most important problems in large cities are traffic jams. Madrid I one of them and it also suffers the same outcomes, which are contamination, waste of many hours in roads, spending a lot of money by wasting petrol, the fact that drivers are always under stress, etc. Contamination produces many pulmonary diseases; time wasted in roads makes the drivers lose time to be with their families; the waste or petrol impacts in national and private economy; the stress suffered by drivers makes them get to work very tired and angry. In this essay I am going to explain the possible solutions to these problems that, in my opinion, would highly reduce traffic jams in Madrid.

       Firs of all, and I think that it is the most important solution, the government should make people aware of the advantages of using public transport. This measure has many advantages like: reducing the pollution in the atmosphere, reducing also the waste of petrol and time in roads; and finally users can travel much more relaxed to the office. Of course, if people began to use public transport more than their own vehicle, the government should make improvements in transport lines, making them bigger and much more frequent.
       
       Another solution could be to promote the teleworking in every enterprise. This consist on working at home. With this alternative, the teleworker can distribute his time as he pleases, having time to work, but also having time to spend with family, friends and himself. Time that is not wasted in roads going to and returning from work. The solution would reduce traffic problems. Also could reduce the cost of companies in buildings, material, etc. However, this creative alternative, requires a change of mind of most of directives that prefers having workers being watched over in their offices.
       
       One third solution would be, in my opinion, to ban trucks and large commercial vehicles from crossing the cities. This option requires to make a god network of alternative routes, including those going by air and sea. Obviously, this would reduce the principal problem of traffic jams, but involves a lot of investments by local and regional government.
       
       One unpopular solution would be the center of the city into pedestrian streets, that would motivate people to walk and go everywhere on foot and use non-popullant vehicles like bikes. It would reduce the pollution in the center but would generate more traffic jams around it. Another unpopular alternative to reduce traffic jams is to forbid people having cars with odd licence plate numbers to dive in odd days, and forbid people having cars with even licence plate numbers to drive cars in even days. This curious measure was implanted in Mexico city in the past, reducing the traffic jams. However it had some problems and it was finally removed.
       
       In Madrid, nowadays we are "enjoying" a lot of roadworks. This situation produces so much noise, dust, traffic jams, accidents, and a log list of annoyed people. I hope that when these roadworks be finished and supposing the solutions explained before be carried out, we will enjoy the most beautiful, clean, and less pollutant city in the world.

