      Nowadays many people think that finding a job is a difficult task which makes itself more complicated if we want a specific job. The report that PISA has published this month about a survey that has been made among some countries of the European Union has proved that in Spain, for instance, the educational level has decreased since 2003. Governments wonder whether the problem of the academic failure is the educational system, so politicians suggest reforms like this one which actually would affect to those students who don't want to continue the university studies. In this essay I am going to argue that these two years up to the age of eighteen should be obligatory ones, but the children could choose either pre-university studies or cycles of professional training which, it seems to me, mean a great advantage for them. 
      
      It is true that there are children that what they want is to work, they don't like to study and don't think about a degree. So that, I believe they should know that these cycles are the training for the job. The practises they make in the last year introduce them in a firm where they learn to do the job and sometimes they are offered a future post in that firm. These practises should be seen as an advantage for the future labour life of the student. I believe whatever children decide at the age of sixteen (to work or continue studying in the University) they need these years to be prepared.
      
      Some people think that to have a qualification is not the important thing and I agree, that the real important thing of all of that is to be happy doing what you are doing but, in my opinion, the reality is that if you want to work normally you are going to be asked for that qualification what it means that this will give you more opportunities. For instance I would point out a future interview of a student who has no experience and has not any qualification as against of another one who can show it although has no experience, having this qualification, firms will be more interested on contracting you, and finding a job will be more easy.
      
      Personally speaking I feel that this aim of getting the job they want is which students have to have these two years. They will have a purpose as they who want to study in the University and they will enjoy learning something that draws them. Some people could think in these children who don't do anything in the school because they don't want study and it is true that there are some students who have this behaviour, but normally it is because of the things they are learning up to the age of sixteen are not interesting for them. But in these two years of professional training they can choose what they want to do, it is their decision and although they have to study it is about something that they like. And finally they will have obtained the qualification that will approach them to that job.
      
      To conclude, in this essay I have argued that obligatory education up to 18 years would be a good reform to help children who don't want continue their studies in the University to get a job they like. In this way they would finish their training more directed towards what they want to do and with more possibilities to reach it thanks to the qualification and the practises they make during the course. I would say that parents and teachers have the responsibility to warn children about the reality of the labour situation, it is said, that a qualification is almost always required and it approach them to the job they want.
