
	Several decades ago many people worry about abortion. This is one of the problems of the society which requires a lot of time to thinking about. On one hand it has a moral impediment and on the other hand there is the necessity of resorting to it in different situations. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.

	There are many arguments in favour of abortion. Firstly, many people think that those who didn't expect a baby and had taken the appropriate contraceptive measures should be allowed to have an abortion because of both it isn't the moment to have a baby or they can't maintain a child. It is not always considered as a selfish way of thinking but sometimes they are conscious that couldn't give the child good conditions to live and they don't want that their child suffered because they can't give him or her what he or she need. Secondly, many people think about abortion when they have been said that the child suffers any disease with which he or she won't be able to have a more or less bearable life. So many times abortion is thought to avoid a life of suffering to the child. 

	Otherwise there are some people who don't defend abortion and the main reason is a question of morality and religion. This group is constituted by the Catholic Church and all that people who above all defend the right of living. The Church can't allow that a life was denied. We have been created to reproduce us and abortion avoids that. However, the problem is that  one way to avoid a possible no desired pregnant is to take the appropriate contraceptive measures and these are also forbidden according to the Church. This is why these arguments against abortion could be a little weak because people can't maintain all the children they could have during all their life. In addition, together with the religious people are those who defend the respect to the life above all. In a pregnant woman there is a life and doesn't matter how long it was, we haven't the right to take it even if the mother is who decide it, if the child is not loved it can be adopted, this seems a reasonable way of respecting the baby life. 

	As almost in everything there are many people who don't see black or white things, they are not as extreme. Some of these people think that even respecting the life of the baby it is important to consider the time he or she has been living because if it is only for a few weeks (maybe 3 or 4) and their parents can't offer a good life and the baby is not going to be loved, it is better considering an abortion. Some others think that abortion should be defended only in the case in which the baby suffered a serious disease clearly without both cure and possible treatment. In this way parents would avoid a future suffering life to the child. And finally those who defend abortion only when the mother life is in some danger and it has to be decided to save one life or the other.

	In conclusion, we can see that there are several viewpoints both in favour and against abortion, those which defend the right of living above all, afterwards looking for a solution if parents can't maintain her or him, and those which prevent a possible bad and suffering life to the baby. There are some people who, as we have seen before, only defend abortion in certain cases where there is an important and serious problem. It could be argued that living is a right so knowing that the child will have a more or less normal life even in adoption, abortion shouldn't be thought as a solution. 
