

Madrid is one of the most populated cities in Europe with approximately 4.000.000 inhabitants. In addition to this, the capital of Spain is among the most cosmopolitan areas worldwide due to the increasing high rate of immigration coming from different places, specially from South America, China and Eastern Europe. It also necessary to refer to the migratory movements within Spain,  since Madrid is the national centre of business and services. Current statistics point out that the 27,4 % of the citizens use the car for moving around the urban. Although it is not a very high figure, it produces traffic jams, atmospheric and noise pollution. All these factors contribute to the huge problems related to traffic that are taking place everyday in the capital. In this essay I am going to present some suggestions to try to confront this situation which is getting so serious than is affecting to the everyday life of the citizens and is reaching political grounds.



Firstly, I personally believe that one of the solutions could be an increasing in the use of public transport. It is very important to promote this idea among the inhabitants since Madrid has abroad network of urban and intercity transports which makes possible efficient and safe movements for its users. However, some of the disadvantages are delays, cancelled services and the notable reduction of night services. If this inconveniences were reduced, using public transport would be the best option because this way of moving from one place to another within the city is cheaper and reduce pollution. Furthermore, it puts a stop to the typical nightmare of every driver: parking.



In the second place, I am of the opinion that bus lane could solve some of the problems related to traffic jams in the main streets of Madrid. Creating an exclusive space in roads for these means of transport could be a way to facilite the movement of traffic and benefit other drivers. In the same way, another type of special lane such as cycle lanes not only facilite incorporation of this transport to the traffic but also make it safer for people who chose this environment-friendly option. On the contrary, the creation of this lanes needs an important economical investment on the part of the Government and the interruption of traffic during the road building. Nevertheless, a good planning of the project and a progressive adoption of this measure would imply the establishment of this lanes without  causing damage to citizens and the Government's economy.





Thirdly, I would like to refer to other minor measures that could be taking to solve the proposed problem, although on a small scale. On the one hand, an alternative could be pedestrianise   main shopping streets such as " Serrano" or " Goya". Avoiding the use of vehicles in this areas which are overcrowded would make more fluent the traffic in the city centre, a critical point in Madrid. On the other hand, another problem that has a direct relation with the traffic in the city centre has to do with the crowded events like concerts or football matches. 
Many stadiums or other buildings where this events are celebrated are situated in busy areas, for example the "Santiago Bernabeu" in the "Paseo de la Castellana". The solution could be to move theses buildings to more peripherical spaces within the capital. Negatives to this changes would come from people who defend the historical value of these buildings, to which it is necessary to add the huge sum of money should be invested in this project. These arguments make difficult the application of these measures, but it could taking into account for feature constructions.


To conclude, the idea developed in this essay has been the reduction of traffic problems in Madrid through the suggestions of some personal solutions. I personally believe that some measures that should be applied, among others, are the promotion of public transport, the creation of special lanes for some types of vehicles, and avoid the massive concentration of traffic in the city centre. All these solutions are not only responsibility of the Government, but also inhabitants should take an active part in trying to solve the problem.







