The technical definition of abort is the removal or expulsion of an embryo or fetus from the uterus, resulting in or caused by its death. But the connotation of this word changes radically according to the reason for which this one moved. When it happens because the mother's life is in danger, badly formation of the fetus or a seriously sick, it would be consider an abort with justification, because the quality of life and the survival are fundamental. Though the promotion and acquisition of contraceptive methods are more attainable nowadays, the number of unwanted pregnancies is very high. Related to this, the numbers of abortions were 193.700 last year, according to figures released by London's Guardian reports. Current statistics show the overall rate of abortion is 18.3 per 1.000 women and girls ages 15 to 44. In these terms, a moral debate is opened on if someone has rightly or not of privatization the life of another human being. The case of violation cannot be treated as an equal mode since it is not a sexual spoiled relation and therefore, it is not possible to consider it like a wanted pregnancy. For these reasons, a general abortion's norm cannot be applied because every case is different to another. This essay presents different viewpoints about the abort.


The politicians are the managers of directing the country bearing in mind the rights and freedoms of the whole society and they do it with laws imposed by the Government. Regarding abortion law, the political debate usually surrounds a right to privacy, and when or how a government may regulate abortion. This matter is very controversial since politicians never reaches an agreement. Certainly, it is a very complicated decision because if the abortion was aproved of widespread form, the most important human right would not be born in mind: The life. On the other hand if the abortion was illegal, the women's capacity of decision would be annulled completely.   

 A direct consequence of the political disagreement, is that some clinics take advantage of this situation to be of benefit economically, practising illegal abortions such as to situation  that is happening nowadays in Barcelona, where illegal abortions are practised in unhealthy conditions and risking the life of the mother.Other physical risks that unleashes this situation are the unfertility or the different types of cancer. Also the fact of aborting produces psychological problems as depression, anxiety or aggressiveness. Some people would argue that the solution of this problem might be that the State should provide psychological help at the disposal of the women who needed it after the abortion.


The Church is in opposition to the abortion considering it to be a murder. According to their beliefs, God is the only one that can give and take the life from the human beings. Since it happens also in case of the euthanasia, that it consists of giving a worthy death to a person sufferings to avoid him, generally with the assent of the patient. Though they agree in case of abortion for badly formation or serious risks, that is to say, the therapeutic abortion. In case of the unwanted pregnancies, they think that the best option would be to give the child in adoption, since the mother gives him the opportunity to live.

To conclude, the abortion is a matter that is totally of current importance in all the countries and does not imply to an only one sector of the society but it reverberates in many people. For this motive it is indispensable to regularize the situation to avoid incompetences and medical failures. It is also necessary that the areas that are not narrowly related are kept to the margin of the matter since in many occasions the life occupies first place to the morality or the ethics. Finally, the society must arouse to avoid these problems as far as possible.




