
     I would like to say that many of surveys and studies of opinion which were realized, showed that people who live in Madrid is worry about the problem of traffic. In my opinion, the world is getting worse and worse particularly in big cities like Madrid where there is a lot of traffic jam, this is guilt of Governments which gave priority to the circulation above other functions with the argument to help the economy. Nowadays, we verify that this is not true and it is becoming a big trouble, and this produce a lot of problems which damage us, it affects our comfort, our health, our economy and our environment. In this essay I am going to give some infrastructures to solve these big dilemmas.

     First, in my view, there is too much pollution which affects our health, because more and more people use their cars for work, for shopping ect...   For example, an Organisation Mundial of the Health (OMH), esteemed that fumes of the traffic generate more deaths each year in UE than the own traffic accident. Some people go on to bet for using their cars which makes to create parking and new subways to drive, but at the same time it is been tried to give a solution with a very expensive construction of the infrastructures underground and railway. On the one hand,  I belive on the necessity of using more the means of transport, but increasing more quality in the public means of transport in some areas. On the other hand, in cities there are numerous obstacles and barriers which prevent to some people who is working or to a group of people with incapacities. If we were able to put ramps or lifts in many areas we would make it easy for them.

     Second, the pollution also affects negatively to our environment due to the increasing of CO2. The amount of CO2 had remained stable apparently for ages but since 1750, it increased about 30% approximately. This change provokes an increasing of the temperature of the Earth because of the greenhouse effect. This will have serious effects: fusion of the polar cap which will raise the seas level, it will change our climate, it will modify our natural vegetation regional and globally. It will damage to our harvests. In 19th century the temperature of our planet increased 0,6º C and scientists forecast that half of our temperature will increase between 1,4 and 5,8º C in 1990 and 2100. Other problem among the others which increase our deterioration planet is the Acidification due to the emission of dioxide of sulphur and oxide of nitrogen because of the thermal power station and leak and the vehicles of motor. When these products interact whit the light of the sun it becomes in acid rain, which provokes: it corrodes materials it gets worn building and monuments stone. It damages and kills the vegetation and acidifies lakes runnings and some soils in northwest of The United States and north of Europe. But how can we solve this problem? I think that it will be better to educate than contaminate, but contaminate less and educate our companies and townspeople to internationalize of the costs; each company will be responsible for not contaminate and if it does that, it will pay the costs of the pollution. We could recycle more, use less our cars, not to throw things on the ground, into rivers, in the forests... Definitively respect our environment to manage a better world and well being for us.

     Also, the uncontrolled use of cars and pollution affects us economically, because need more quality in public means of transport. I would argue that if we don't want to contaminate the environment, it will be necessary to change the different types of energy that we use for our mobility on busses and cars. Change our system of manufacture but it require big inversions. As well the pollution provoke in humans and animals we must pay for those illness costs. And it affects us because we are a very hedonistic society. However, we can solve this problem by being less hedonistic but more responsible to our planet. 
     
     In conclusion I would like to say that this topic is real, and it is very important and very actual nowadays in our society and it needs an urgent resolution. This is a thing of discussion among people every day especially in the mass media. It is difficult to solve but we must do something, because everybody is interesting in it, due to the consequences it has to us, to our planet and to our economy. In principle, speaking personally I would say that we should not contaminate more. All of us must do this effort. Authorities, should hold up campaign to educate to all of citizen for not to contaminate. Employers must involve using energy in means of transport. 








