        The abortion that in the last 30 years has been an issue of discussion nowadays, has turned into a polemic topic. To it  the legislations  have contributed  in the different countries accompanied of the different opinions of the people and of the different ethical valuation. In these days the controversial has risen of tone immediately after there know the practical inhuman abortive realized in Spain in doctor's Morín clinics, divulged opportunely by the  media of social comunication. In this essay I am going to present the different arguments that the people have with regard to the abortion in itself, and about the legislation in certain cases (as in Spain), and its consequences.

      We find  in the definition of abortion the first topic of discussion: First, medicine understand  abortion as the delibereted ending of a pregnancy at an early stage, when it has not any possibilities to survive. Second, in the ordinary language abortion means the death of the fetus because of its expulsion natural or provoked any moment of its  intrauterine life. Saying with other words, abortion is the interruption of the embarrassment.

     Another point of discussion appears to considere as abortion voluntary, provoked  deliberated. Some people would argue that it is licit to interrupt the pregnancy in the first months due to they consider that there is no life yet. Another great mayority thinks that it is never lawful to interrupt the pregnancy, since from the first moment of the conception it exists and even a project of life. The above mentioned will say incisively that it is necessary to be always in favour of the life and in opposition to the death in all the circumstances. Also the first ones affirm it but they consider that in these first weeks  there is no life. What refers to the polemic of last days; to provoke the abortions when and the fetus is 5, 6, 7 or 8 weeks old, there is no possible discussion, they all are in against and it is necessary to say that this is of sick brains which are corrupted by the money.

     In the third point of discussion express the different attitudes follow by the indications about aborting that has the Spanish law in 1985. As for the indication of the therapeutic abortion, the opinion and discussion existed until the law arose: Some people argued that it was always necessary to save the son. On the other hand, others argued that it was necessary to save the mother. Today there is no discussion. It is a question always of saving to recover and save the patient, who is the mother. And if the two can be saved better, but in this case one does not try to kill anybody. As for the indication of the eugenic abortion the opinions have been and are very strong. There are some who argued that if the child who comes is diminished physics or psychically, it is not necessary to stop him to come to the world, on the basis of his or her future happiness. The law supports the decision of the parents. Those who are opposed, and here it is necessary to assess the attitude of the Christian Doctrine, they have it very clear. Children have all their right to be born. Humans do not have to govern the clock of the life, which only competes to God and here, the testimonies of the parents who have children with physical or psychic deficiencies are very clear and convincing on having demonstrated the happiness of their children. With regard to the indication, great of the ethical abortion a lot of people argued that it is the clearest way of interruption of the life, departing from the affirmation that we can not force a woman under an obligation to live nine months with the fruit of an aggression

     For the opponents this interruption is a murder and what it is necessary to do is to help this mother to overcome the trauma, to bring this life to the world, not forbidding it to be born and if it is necessary to get her ready for adoption. The consequences also have been and are topics of discussion, but not everybody can see them as clear.The first victim of the abortion is the child not born. In general, we all say to be in favour of the life and in opposition to the death. But in all the circumstances? Here begin the interpretations. Some affirm that always it is necessary to be in against. Others add that expression when they accept the indications of the abortion. The second victim of the abortion is the woman. Some minimizes, does not want to see physical and psychological after- effects. Scientific studies reveal the psychological upset in the women who abort. They speak about the syndrome post - abortion and most of the women who have aborted say to be suffering this syndrome. This way is recognized by the most important Organization Abortionist of the world and the International Federation of Family Planning, whose speak about  the 91 % of the cases.
The psychological and physicists effects would be: anguish, depression, nightmares, insomnia, alcoholism, aggressiveness, suicide, death, cancer of ovaries and uterine neck, cancer of breast, perforation of the uterus...

     So then, there are reflected several opinions about the humanitarian, social and ethical problem (of the first category) in Spain and all over the world. In the opinions are verify two different positions. Some people are always in favour of the life and in opposition to the death. Others are in favour of the life and in opposition to the death, but according to the cases. The law supports the latter attitude. And abreast to the future, since near 100.000 women will abort a year in Spain and since the business moves many million Euros. If nobody remedies it, next year 100.000 children will not be able to be born and the health and the happiness of many women will be destroyed. In that way this is showned by approximately two hundred scientific investigations. Since from the change of legislation it is not possible to expect for anything, there will be necessary to make aware of the citizens's conduct and to claim of the authorities bigger pursuit and control of the abortive clinics.
     
     
     
     
     
                                                         
