 
Nowadays education is one of the most important issues that are being dealt with in Spain. With only 30 years of democracy, the Spanish educational system has been changed six times. In 1990 Spain settled the obligatory education up to 16 years. Recently, there have been proposals of a new change where the main point has to do with the age children are allowed to leave school, suggesting it should be when students turn 18 years old. These proposals have created some controversy and though there are some interesting arguments against extending obligatory education two years in this essay I will try to explain why I consider this change is beneficial for the Spanish society and, therefore, should be made.

First of all, we are not considered adults until we turn 18 and, therefore, we are not legally responsible of our actions and really entitled to all rights and duties as citizens before becoming adults by law. I believe that until someone turns 18 he should be studying and training himself for whatever he decides to do once he is of age. Some people might argue that you can already start working when you are 16 so there is no need to keep studying. However, the jobs that under aged can apply for are very limited and soon they will find themselves in the need of being of age to find a better job. When they finally turn 18 they will realise that they are at a clear disadvantage to people their age that have continued their studies.

The problem of insufficient education leads us to another problem that could be solved with two extra years of study: the difficulties some unprepared people might find once they are of age to get a good job. There are people who maintain that some families need their children's help to subsist. Nonetheless, though it may be a valid argument, it is necessary to remark that there are full wage scholarships that would allow students to contribute to the families sustain and prevent them from leaving their studies. This is a very important point because it would protect the democratic principle of equal opportunities. 

Last, it has been argued that there is no use in forcing teenagers to keep studying when they do not want to because it is a waste of time and public money. This lack of motivation would also damage students that do want to continue their studies. Nonetheless, I believe that education is not only a right but also a duty. Society pays for our education and so, as citizens, we have to reward it by being useful. The perfect way of doing so is by studying and increasing our knowledge. This way, we will also have access to better jobs and strengthen the workers' rights. Though the students' lack of motivation is a problem, this problem must be solved from the educational institution itself and it is no excuse to not to give back what society expects from us.

In conclusion, this essay has presented what may be considered as the most relevant arguments in favour of expanding obligatory education up to 18 years. First, we do not have full access to labour market until we are 18 years old. Second, by increasing our knowledge we are gaining more chances of getting a better job and improving the general situation of workers' rights and third, we are compelled to improve our education to serve society. Having considered this arguments I believe that obligatory education must be extended up to 18 years and that this change will be very positive for our society both in cultural and economic aspects. 

