Abortion has been a source of considerable debate and controversy over the past years. Pro-life activists, people who are radically opposed to any form of abortion, and pro-choice supporters who believe the women should be in complete control of their pregnancy and, therefore, free to choose whether to continue with the gestation or to interrupt it present two views that may be considered diametrically opposed though there is a large range of positions between both. Recently, the argument has been revived in Spain due to the uncovering of  illegal abortive centres in Barcelona and Madrid. This essay will discuss some of the different views concerning induced abortion.
Pro-life activists believe that abortion should be allowed under no circumstances because they consider life should be valued from the very moment of fertilization. Foetuses must be then considered living human beings and, consequently, entitled to the Human Rights where the main right is the "right to life, security and liberty of person".  So then abortion is regarded as morally wrong and even as a way of murder. This position might seem too radical because they consider "person" not only a foetus but also "potential person" ovum and sperm. Some people might also find it hard to approve of a movement that tries to impose their own beliefs on others. By forbidding abortion you are forcing women to carry on with their pregnancy whereas the legalisation of abortion will not force anyone to abort if they do not wish to. 
On the other hand, the pro-choice movement alleges that women must have access to safe and legal abortion if they do not want to give birth to a child. This way the right of choosing whether to have or not children is recognized but, it would also solve problems involving illegal abortions which mostly have to do with the women's health since a high percentage of these irregular procedures end with the death of the woman. By this standards the Human Rights are not given until the moment of birth, before this, the foetus is just "another part" of the woman's body and so she must be the one to decide what she deems appropriate. This position is very extreme because the foetus can be independent and therefore live "out" of the mother from the sixth month of gestation
In spite of these extremisms there are some that believe that there some allowance should be made. Though not completely in favour of abortion on demand, they do not think that abortion should be prohibited. This position sustains that there are a list of different circumstances that must be taken in consideration before deciding whether the abortion can be carried out. Usually, by this view, legal abortion could be performed in case the pregnancy may mean serious danger for the mother's or the child's lives, rape or foetal defects. They also believe that a time limit for abortions should be established. This is proposed because they consider the foetus a living being when it would be able to live more or less independent of the mother (this would be the case of premature babies). This is the most open-minded position as it recognizes the rights of both the foetus and the woman though the mother's right to life prevails over the foetus in case of death peril. 
 In conclusion, we have seen some of the many arguments used for condemning or defending abortion. First, some regarding foetus as a living human being and so entitled with the Human Rights from the start of the process of fertilization. Second, the women's right to make freely the choices that concern their own body. Finally, a restricted legalization that allows abortion only in some specific cases. Probably the view that appears most convincing is this last one since it can be considered as a midpoint between the other two and might prevent some of the problems that would ensue from a complete prohibition of abortion.
