      Abortion has been one of the most polemical questions for several decades. Abortion is the spontaneous or induced interruption of the pregnancy. The really controversial question is the induced abortion. It gives women that don't want to have the baby the possibility of finishing the pregnancy. This seems to be a good alternative for pregnancies in which the mother can lose her life, pregnancies as a result of a rape, etc. However, there are some sections who don't agree with this medical technique, because they understand abortion like a crime. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.
      
      On the one hand, there are several arguments in favour of abortion, mostly from young citizens. Many of them think that a woman, or a couple, have the right to decide if they want to have the baby or not. Some other people believe that when mother's life is in danger because of the pregnancy, abortion would be the better and more reasonable decision, because they believe mother's life is more important that a foetus that isn't really a person yet. It could also be argued that a foetus that are expected to born with serious physical or psychical defects don't deserve to live in that conditions. In this case parents have also the decision. This viewpoint in favour of the mother's decision seems to be reasonable, because parents have the real responsibility of their acts.
      
      On the other hand, there are some arguments against abortion, mostly from religious people. Catholic Church has declared in lots of occasions her position. They have argued that parents haven't got the decision of finishing a life, because from their point of view that decision is only in God's hands. It is also possible to say that it's not children's fault that their parents had committed a mistake. When parents commit a mistake, they have to deal with it, not avoid it. Although, mostly people against abortion believe that it is a crime that should be punished by law. This point of view appears to be logical. However they don't seem to care about parents' decision.
      
      There are other arguments which are in favour of abortion, depending on the different situations in which the mother and the baby are. One of these arguments is that it could be a good way to solve an economic or psychological problem. But people who believe that also think that parents should have use one of the methods of birth control that are able to use it. Some other people feel that abortion, in some cases is a crime; but there are some cases, like a rape or a malformation of the baby, in which abortion save the mother and the baby from bad circumstances, like their possible death. The general opinion of people who are in the middle of for and against is that they agree with abortion when it's necessary, and parents and the doctor approve that. But they don't agree with abortion when the mother could avoid the pregnancy but doesn't do it because of her irresponsibility. This viewpoint appears convincing because gives parents the decision of the abortion, but seem to demand them responsibility.
      
      To conclude, we can see that there are several arguments defending and attacking abortion. Most of viewpoints in favour of it defend the liberty of parents, which can take the decision they want, because they are the only possible responsibles of their child's life. Against these opinions, Catholic Church presents a viewpoint that doesn't care about parents' decision and defends the decision of God about life. However, there are also the mid-viewpoints. They evaluate the aspects of each pregnancies and give the mother the responsibility of avoid the unwanted pregnancies, and the possibility of the abortion when there are some problems in the pregnancy. However, it seems to be important to raise woman, especially young woman, of using methods of birth control to avoid unwanted pregnancies, so then there would be less abortion rate.
      
      
