    
      The high influx of vehicles in big cities is one of the principal focus that governors want to resolve. Nowadays, traffic is one of the most serious problems that Madrid has. It contributes to the increase of pollution. But not only traffic affects the environment, traffic also affects people: it causes stress and forces people to wake up earlier to arrive on time at work. In this essay I will argue that traffic may have some possible solutions in such a way it could be reduced.
      
      I believe that promoting a greater use of public transport, with campaigns or something that could convince population, can be a good solution for the problem of traffic. Buses and the underground, it seems to me, would reduce traffic if more people used them, because, in that way, there were less people driving cars. Some people, however, think that this solution is not really a good one. They argue that buses' service is insufficient, and they usually make a detour to arrive at destination place. However, I don't feel those are reasonable arguments. Even if you wait for a bus ten minutes, for instance, and the bus branch off of the way, you would arrive earlier at your destination that another man that moved on a car.
      
      Another solution for the problem of traffic, personally speaking, is to move through Madrid using a bicycle. Some avenues of Madrid have cycle lanes that can be used, and with an effort of governors could be built more of those cycle lanes. The advantages of using bicycles, it seems to me, are numerous. First, they don't contaminate because they don't need petrol to run, so pollution would be reduced if we move through the city in a bicycle. Second, they are cheaper than cars, because they don't consume any kind of petrol and you can buy one of them inverting much less money. Last but not least, bicycles would contribute to reduce traffic of cars. Nevertheless, it could be argued that bicycles are a primitive way of displacement, and also there are some people, even the majority of population, that need a car to feel more important. However, I feel that bicycles can be the perfect vehicle, because they don't contaminate, and they can be a really good solution to traffic. Depending on a car only because it gives us a greater importance should not be an aspect of our personality.
      
      Working at home, it appears to me, can be another good solution to the problem of traffic. Most of the vehicles that are part of endless traffic jam, mostly in rush hours, belong to people who move to work in their cars. So I believe that working at home will reduce the influx of traffic, making it more fluid. However, some people, specially employers and office managers prefer their employees to work at offices, because physical presence is important for them. However, I think that this is not a convincing reason. Thanks to the progress of technology we only need a computer and Internet to work at home, so we must take advantage of it.
      
      In summary, in this essay I have argued that there are several possible solutions that would be able to reduce the high influx of vehicles in Madrid. For instance, I have proposed that people would have to consider a different way of moving through the city, like in a bicycle, or in public transport, that must be used more regularly. Another way that I think would benefit the reduction of traffic is working at home. However, I believe that unless the people change their mind and realize that cars are not such an indispensable transport, traffic will not be reduced.
