Education in Spain is compulsory up to 16 years. This fact has become an issue since some political parties, such as Izquierda Unida, have proposed to make education obligatory until students are 18 years old, because they believe this would solve future job problems and improve people's ability of working. In this essay I will discuss the reasons why I believe this change is no solution at all, and that it is actually better not to do it.

First of all, I believe that forcing a grown up teenager to study would be rather worse for individuals and students in general. What we get by making somebody study when it isn't what they want to do, is create a negative attitude towards teachers and classmates, making the studying environment worse and, also, not letting students who want to attend classes do it properly. Also, since these students are not in class because they've decided so, it is highly probable that they get poor academic results, which can lead to demotivation and failure. It could be argue that a sixteen-year-old is not able to decide on his future, because he's too young or has no experience. However, I feel that, at that age, youngsters are mature enough to notice wether they're keen on studies or not, or even decide if they prefer doing some other activity like start working once they've got some basic knowledge.

Another important point to argue would be the economical circumstances of the students. In my view, there are some families who just cannot afford to have their children studying until they're eighteen years old, or even nineteen or twenty if they happen to have some difficulties when it comes to studying. There are lots of indirect things in which parents would have to spend money on: books, materials...not to mention the effort that has to be done to mantain someone who has reached an age and is no productive at all. It is true that, being mandatory, this education would be provided by the government, which means people wouldn't have to spend a monthly amount of money in schools. But, government has to get the money they invest on education from somwhere too: the rest of citizens. So, rising education up to 18 years would make taxes higher, affecting not only parent's economy, but also every citizen's.

Finally, I would like to argue that, in my view,  rising education up to 18 years can reduce the preparation of teenagers who do certain jobs. If a youngster who knows he's not going to continue his studies goes out of school when he's eighteen, by the time he finishes preparing himself for the job he has chosen, he would be already in his twenties, which I believe is a waste of time if he needs to get to work straight away for any kind of reason. It could be argued that two more years of school makes youngsters more prepared for any work. Nevertheless, I feel that most of the knowledge that is needed for certain jobs is already given in primary school. It's better to invest time on some specific studies that are directly related to the job the student is going to do later. This must be done in a voluntary way, never in a compulsory one. 



So then, in this essay I have argued some of the reasons why I think forcing teenagers to attend classes until they are eighteen is not a good proposal. I have mentioned its effects on students in general, the economical disadvantages, and the decrease on preparation on  certain activities.  Considering all this points, it seems to me that the most logical answer would be to give freedom to choose between studying and not studying at an early age, making sure that children are provided a proper basic education in previous studies, such as primary school.

