

Abortion is a very controversial issue these days because of the big amount of moral aspects that it involves. In some countries, such as China, abortion is completely legal, no matter what the situation is. In others, such as Chile, there are some others where it's not legal even if pregnancy could mean the risk of the mother's life. Yet, there are some countries, such as Spain, where abortion is only legal in certain situations. In this essay I will disscuss some of the different point of views regarding the polemical issue of abortion.

On one hand, there are some people argue that a mother should be free to choose wether to have an abortion or not because of several reasons. First, they point out that every child should be wanted in order to grow up in a good environment. If a child grows up in a family that doesn't want him, he could notice it and have problems later. Second, they feel that a woman should be able to control what happens inside her body, and no governmet or religion should interfere on the decision of having a baby. Finally, many people support the idea of illegal abortion being dangerous. Also, some believe that being illegal makes it more uncontrollable. These arguments seem to be quite convincing, specially the last one, because, even if abortion is illegal, it would be still be done in some cases, but with few or unproper ressources, which could be dangerous.

On the other hand, some people believe it is not moral to have an abortion. On contrary to what pro-abortion people believe, they feel that a fetus is a human being since the beginning of its creation, and having an abortion could be equalled to murder. Besides, they point out that by having an abortion, the mother is denying the baby it's right to live which is the first of human rights. Also, they think that parents should take the responsibility if they happen to have a non desired pregnancy. For most catholics, abortion is not acceptable because they support the idea of God being the only one with the right to give and take someone's life. All these opinios appear to be quite logical, except for the last one, which could seem rather irrational or would not be a valid argument for people who don't believe in that religion. 

However, not everyone thinks abortion is totally right or wrong. There are several people who believe that abortion should be legal depending on the situation. For example, some people would argue that in cases of rape or incest it would be reasonable to have an abortion. Another situation in which abortion could be considered acceptable would be when having a baby means risking the mother's life. It is also supported that if a child comes with any genetical failure, the better option would be not having the baby. Finally, there are some people who feel that the parent's economical circumstances could also be a reason for aborting, since it's very hard to rise a child without the means to do it. These could be considered realistic perspectives, because if the circumstances are not the proper or standars, both parents and children could have a really hard time in the future. 

So then, we can see that there is a lot of variety of opinions regarding abortion. Some people feel it's necessary, others feel it's unacceptable, and there are still others who would approve it in some cases. On balance, abortion could be a good solution for some cases of dangerous or non desired pregnancy, if it's done in the right way. Nevertheless, abortion is still going to be a complicated subject, and it could be possible that we never got to an agreement.








