    
    The traffic problem is something that affects thousands of people in Madrid. There are many workers who have to drive almost all the days of the week and, for this reason, they arrive late to their jobs, because they have to spend a big amount of time waiting on the road. In this essay I  will try  to suggest some solutions to finish with this important problem.
    
    In my opinion there are an excessive number of roadworks in Madrid. A lot of diggers and construction workers flood our streets and motorways which damages traffic. Some statistics inform that, while the last year the average speed was about eighteen kilometres per hour for each car, this year the average is about sixteen kilometres. It is true that our streets and roads need improvements and it is neccesary the presence of machines in them. However, these roadworks could be made more gradually and maybe cars could drive better.
    
    It seems to me that public transport would have to be more used  by much more people driving to their job. This  mean of transport can move somebody to a lot of places because this transport in Madrid has a very good combination between underground, train and buses. Of course it is not so comfortable as a car and it has  deterninated timetables. Nevertheless this method is cheaper than the other and people can go calmer, reading, sleeping and not worried by the other cars, traffic lights, traffic jam, horns and so on.
    
    For my part, I believe that in a car there are free sits where  more people could travel. In many cars only one person travels and if each car were full maybe there would be less cars on the roads. On the other hand this seems impossible, not all the people have four work partners who live near of them, or four friends living near, who work in the same place. However, maybe there are people who meet one o two people living near or working near of them and they could take them in turns to drive during the week: they would save money in petrol and make the traffic more fluent.
    
    In my view, should be more organitation of the circulation for the council part. For example, in London there are some tolls to enter in the city centre and also was talked  about prove a sistem where the cars that have an even number in their number plate, could drive to the city centre some days and cars that have a odd number plante would have to drive the opposite days.
    
    Of course this type of solution can take itself several complaints because people do not have to pay more for a right like is can drive in their own town and can't drive some days of the week. However, the idea of number plate seems a good analysis, because some days people can travel at public transport and the rest, could take their car.
    
    So then, we have seen several problems that affected the traffic in Madrid, and many possible solutions to finish with them, like doing some roadworks more gradually, using more the public transport, sharing  cars we have seen also another possibility like is to put a toll at the entrance of city centre and force the people to pay if they want to enter, another more practical possibility is the number plate's sistem. I believe that it is not a problem without any solution only we have to be more consciencious of it and try to put remedy and our travels left to be so stressful.
    

    

