    The legalisation of marijuana creates a lot of discussions. There are many people for it, other people are against and some groups that are at the middle of this debate, which causes politics and socials problems and there are a lot of people affected by this fact. In this essay, I will consider objectively some of the different opinions about the legalisation of marijuana. 
    
    Many people for the legalisation of marijuana argue that there are other types of drugs like tobacco or alcohol that can be bad for the health, however they are legal, even being more dangerous than marijuana. Some statistics inform that in a quiz done about 300 people a number of 57, 0 % think that alcohol and marijuana have the same bad effects. They also argue that it is not fair to group marijuana's smokers who criminals like thieves or murderous. This point is rather convincing, although, is it really tobacco or alcohol more dangerous than marijuana? Another point is that nowadays smoke or drink alcohol is each time more banned in some places and if the government legalises this drug maybe this fact could seems like recoil.
    
    Other people think that the own consume should be legal. They argue that it is like a tobacco and people who want to smoke could do it, but not to market with it, because there are an incredible number of  mafias that the only interest is earn money with this business and maybe this could increase the violence, killings and so on. This argument seems to make sense, because if smoke tobacco is legal, smoke marijuana could be it too, but its marketing can show very attractive to earn money without many afford and here began the problems, when money is involved.
    
    There are groups who think that marijuana only should be used and legalised to help with health problems, for many time has been used against glaucoma, a secondary effect of AIDS, and now is believed that can help with mental disorders. One cancer's ill demanded the legalisation of marijuana because some months ago, the marijuana finished with his pains. This could be considered a realistic perspective, but if marijuana was legalised to finish with health problems, maybe many people bought it and did not use it for this problems, maybe this people smoke it.
    
    Finally, there are many people who are totally against marijuana's legalisation because can damage our health physics and mental. They argue that this drug contains a chemist component (THC) which changes the information that come to our brain and create problems with our memory and learning, producing some difficulties like: think and solve mathematics problems, loss of co-ordination and an increasing of heart frequency, anxiety and panic's attacks. This argument seems to make sense, however not all the people who smoke marijuana could have these problems, it depends on the amount of marijuana that will be smoke, depends also on the metabolisms of each one.
    
    So then, this essay has presented several points of view about the legalisation of marijuana, people who think that should be legal, like tobacco and alcohol, another who think that could be legal to own consume. Other group of people's point of view is that only should be used to finish with health problems could have to be legalised, and the group totally against, who think that this drug is very harmful for the mental and physic human health, and would have to be illegal. Considering all these points is difficult, maybe impossible for a government to do a solution that like everybody. For this reason, the best solution maybe would be to choose an intermediate solution.
    
    

