
      Terrorism is a very big problem in the Spanish society. Most people think that it is the most important, according to the latest polls. For that reason to finish with terrorism is one of the main missions of the Spanish Government, and for that, the Government has to do some things. In many countries like the United States or the UK, the Government never negotiates with terrorists unless the terrorists are going to leave the attacks. But in Spain every Government negotiates with ETA when they have the power. In this essay I am going to argue that negotiating with terrorists is not a good option for the Government for getting the end of the terrorism.
      
      First of all, I personally think that negotiating with terrorists is not that people want to finish with terrorism, and is not the best option to finish with it. When, in many cases, tarrorists make a truce, the Government goes to the "Congreso de los Diputados" and propose the begining of negotiations. But terrorists use those truces for getting more weapons. However in those truces the Spanish Government continues with the search and capture of terrorists without the fear of of an attack. In addition, no negotiation has ever been successful and, by the time, terrorists have used the truces for getting more money, people and arms.
      
      On the other hand, some people can argue that negotiating with terrorists is the only way to finish with the terrorists. This argument is defended by people who think that in every case if someone wants something the only way is dialoging. However, there are people who think that if terrorists do not abandom the arms there will not be any negotiation. In addition, terrorism will not be for ever and negotiating with the terrorists of ETA is one of the possibilities for getting  the end of ETA.
      
      Finally, I personally belive that the negotiations with terrorists are not the best option the Spanish Government has. The Government has not to negotiate with terrorists because they do not what the Government wants, and the victims of terrorism do not want the Government to negotiate  with ETA becaouse they have suffered the terrorism in their own and they do not think that negotiations have success. However, in other countries, where Governmets have negotiated with terrorists, terrorism is over thanks to those negotiations because people want the Government to do that. But in Spain most people do not want it, and in a democracy, Government has to do what people want.
      
      To sum up, I belive that the negotiations with terrorists have to be when the terrorists do not make attacks and under the conditions of the Spanish Government, not when they want, because terrorists have no right of asking anything. For those reasons, negotiations are very complicated because every Government in Spain wants to eliminate the terrorism of ETA and they make things that dislike to people, espacially to the victims, who do not want any negotiation with terrorists because terrorists did not negotiate when they suffered the attacks. For all those reasons I personally think that the Spanish Government has not to negotiate with the ETA terrorists.
