
      Abortion is one of the most problematic problem we have in our time. Many peole is in favour of the right of stopping the pregnancy if the woman does not want the baby. But there are people who are against the abortion. These people think that abortion is like kill, so they do not want a law which is in favour of murder. And, at last, there are people who think abortion is a resort for those women who have been raped and they do not want to have the baby of the man who has do it. In this essay I will discuss, in an objective way, if abortion must be legal or not.
      
      First of all, there are people who are in favour of making abortion legal, because doing what you want with your life is a right and you have to choose: you have to decide if you are going to have the baby or not. In many cases, couples turn to abortion because their contraceptive methods have failed, and being parents is an option that they have never thought about. However if you go to abort to a clinic you have to be sure about the risks the woman is going to suffer, because once the procedure begins you cannot stop. In any case if a woman does not want to have the baby, she must have the option of aborting or have having the baby.
      
      On the other hand, there are people who do not accept the abortion under no way. These people think that when there are a foetus, a life is given and any way of stopping it is considerong murder. These are people very religious and argue that if God has blessed with a baby, it does not matter the way, you must have the baby. In spite of this, some people think that if you do not have to want the baby, you are free of doing what you want. But in any case, these religious people will always be against the abortion because they think that finishing with the life which is growing inside you is not moral. This argue cannot be denied because everyone has his own moral and it cannot be doubted.
      
      Another different point of view, between the others, is that somepeople think the abortion can only be used in those cases which the woman has been rapped. These people think that abortion in these cases must be legal because the baby the woman is going to have can generate a trauma to her. However, religious people belive that if you do not want to bring the baby up you can give the baby in adoption. But there are women who do not want it because they are going to suffer and remember that horrible moment during nine painful months. That argument cannot be denied because everyone has the right of doing whatever he want, and if abortion is legal, those women who have benn rapped will abor if they want.
      
      To sum up, the points of view about if abortion must be legal or not are quite different. Some people are in favour of it in any case because you can do what you want with your body and with your life. in the other side there are people who belive that that is not what God wants and they think that the abortion is a murder. In the middle of the other two points of view, other people think that abortion has to be legal, but only in specific circumstances, likes rapes. All of these viewpoints are well-deffended by people who know about this problem and they will do the better for society.
