      
      Euthanasia is one of the most important,difficult and controversial problem qe have had in the last years. Nowadays, medicine can help people with terminal illnesses to stay alive and have their last days without pain and suffering. But there are some people who prefer to die with honour and they do not want to stay alive, they only want ti die. In spite of this, euthanasia is illegal and those who help people to die are prosecuted. In this essay I will discuss several points of view about euthanasia.
      
      Firstly, there are the arguments against the euthanasia. Most people who is against the euthanasia are religious people. They argument that euthanasia is a murder, and it is against the right to live, and that is something we must consider. However, if someone wants the right to die, he has to be listened as those who claims for their own lifes. In addition, people against euthanasia argue that killeing a person, it does not matter the reasson, is inmoral and destroys the dignity of the people.
      
      Another point of view against the euthanasia is that medicine can make the pain disappears ussing drugs and other sustances, like narcotics, and can keep alive people wit machines which breath and feed for the patients. The problem with this argument is that drugs are not always helping, because the pain and the suffering do not disappear for ever, it is only for a few hours, and drugs make you dependant of them. In addition, there are people who have woke uo from long comas or hav recovered of their illnesses, and they have a normal life after that recuperation.
      
      On the other hand, there are many arguments in favour of euthanasia. Some people think they decide about their own lifes. They argue they have the rigth to decide to live or die. However, it is the doctor who has to decide if the patient can take important decisions, because it is he who is going to help or not the patient. In addition, it does not matter if the doctor wants or not to do, if the State has laws in favour of euthanasia, the doctor has to obbey them, in spite of his faith.
      
      There are also other arguments about euthanasia. People with degenerative diseases can argue they want to finish with their life, because that is not a real life, that is a torture. Another point of view is when the patient has not the faculty of thinking, then is the people near the patient who have to take decisions about him, but that people have had to be authorised for that. This is a good way for people not to be accused orçf murder.
      
      To sum up, there are lots of arguments about euthanasia, some arguments are in favour, deffending the right to die with honour and without pain, some arguments are against, because we cannot choose if we live or die, because life is not our possesion, and some arguments are in favour but only in specific situations, like degeneratuve diseases. All arguments are valid, because ones deffend life is ours and we can do whatever we want with it, other deffend that that is not our option because life is not ours. In any case it is difficult to make euthanasia legal because either option will be against one of the sides.
