
      A big city like Madrid, New York or London needs good transport for people to move where they go. For that, these cities have the best public transport in the world. Public transport is cheap, fast and convenient, because you have not to worry about where you are going to park. For example, the undreground moves thousands of peolpe everyday from their houses to their work or school. But there is not only the undreground, there is also the bus service or, for expample in Madrid, the "cercanías". But not everybody takes the public transport to go work, they go by car. In this essay I will argue that public transport is better than the car.
      
      First of all, I personally believe that everybody would have to use the public transport. Public transport is an economical way to go work because it is cheaper than the gas you need for the car. In fact, if we use public transport in spite of our own car, less carbon dioxide will be sent off to the ozone layer. However, there are people who think that public transport is not a good way of moving because there are always a lot of people and the travel is not comfortable. Personally speaking, I feel that if more people go in public transport there will be more vehicles for public transport and there will not be those mass of people.
      
      It has been argued that someone who has a car can go to work or to the university by car. They can also argue that they have to go outside the city to go work, and the only way to go is by car, crossing the city. Going by car is faster and you go alone, without nobody who can disturb you. However there are more people who think the same and they take the car to go work, and because of that traffic jams are formed. Moreover, someone who has to move outside the town to go work can argue that taking the car is the best option because they have to do a lot of kilometres.
      
      Finally, I belive that public transport is the best option for someone who is going to move into the city, because in these big cities before named, you have to pay for parking. However, with the new parkingmeters you can find parking easier than before, because you have a limited time to be parked. But, in my view, it is better going in public transport, because if you go to the center of the city in public transport you have not to worry about the car or the time of the parkingmeter, you only go and do whatever you have to do.
      
      To sum up, I belive that to use the public transport is better than not to use it, because using it, you help the enviroment reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide and do not form large traffic jams. Also, in some cities you can go from one side of the city to the other in a very short time and in a cheap way, in Madrid, for example, you can go to the Barajas Airport by underground and it only takes you less than an hour from the center of the city. For those things I think that public transport is the best way for moving into a big city.
