
In our present society Spain is received an important volume of 
immigrants, that these days the break a million. The immigration is 
produced when a group of people or a person from a region or a country 
change of residence to another, from point of view of destination places. 
The immigration can be interior or exterior. The first immigrants were 
Asian people who went to the American continent from Bering Straits. In 
modern times the phenomenon has changed, and the days the migrations go 
from developing countries to more developing countries. The immigrants 
become mostly from Europe; from Africa (Marruecos); from Latin 
America and Asia. Their He causes, which raise the immigration, are the 
better social services in the destination countries and the levels of well 
being are better than theirs. This essay considers the main viewpoints 
concerning the issue of immigration in Spain.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of immigration. The 
Spanish society is getting old because there are more old men and women 
than children.  In consequence the immigration's children do the average of 
children per woman increase. In Spain the average of sons per woman are 
1,7 with this number don't produce change of generation and these children 
do that this number gradually increases. Another possible viewpoint is that 
a lot of children can't go to the school in their countries and here they 
receive a good education.

Some arguments against the immigration are that when an immigrant 
arrives to a country, he also brings her culture; for example a Moslem 
person need a mosque and some people would argue that if we have to 
build it or if they have to accustom in our habits and if children have to 
learn the Catholic religion or if there should be their specific religion, 
neither possible viewpoint is that people considers than immigrants take 
away our jobs but some evidence suggests that immigrants and us are 
people and in any job, it should treat of catching the most prepared person. 
It might also be pointed out that in our present society is appearing several 
mafias; than they bring people from poor countries delude and they explode 
them; for example a lot of women are brought to be prostitute or they 
create group that sell drugs or records. Consequently it appears xenophobic 
attitude, which produce the devolution to their countries or the restriction 
of their justice. 

However, it could be argued that immigration is not totally for or against 
what it acceptable or not is viewpoint that we consider. It might be argued 
that, economically they are acceptable because there are a lot of jobs that 
we don't like do as construction or similar cases and it is positive than they 
come but we need in concrete times. Others might be that they are very 
useful in summer in several fields to collect fruits in Murcia, Valencia 
because those jobs the Spanish people don't like to do.

To sum up, we have seen that the immigration is issue of present situation 
and equally the Spanish people were immigrants when the situation of 
Spain was bad and the people had to run away because they haven't got 
neither food nor money. The situation forced them to leaving their home 
and look for anew life and the hope things than normally the never find. 
Considering all these points, it might be reasonable that people were more 
tolerable and accept them as normal people that in fact they are and don't 
put more impediment than they already have and the government would 
also contribute with plans of help to can come in our society but the don't 
treat as worse or better than ours.












