
            The matter of homosexuality has suffered different swinging throughout history. The homosexuality is a known practice since antiquity. Homosexual is who has affinity sexual for people of same sex. Woman homosexuals are called lesbian too; because Lesban , who was a poet, was important because of her beautiful songs to homosexual love . For many years it was impossible speak about it, but society is gradually going to accept different situation because everything is changing. In this paper I intent to argue that in my view gays people should be allowed to get married and adopt children as any other people in the world.

Firstly, I personally believe that gays people can be married like a man with a woman because this situation seems to me that nowadays the world is changing and in consequence we are gradually adapting to them. Some years ago if we had argued it we would be in prison because it is a theme than was hidden .The church can't understand this and fight for keeping its thoughts about the unique possible union is between a man with a woman. In modern times, life is going to change with generations and in our present generation we see more and more two man walk to grab each other or kiss and it is possible to argue that it impress us and attract our attention and we point it out with the finger because of we don't   frequently used to look it but we have to learn to accept it because they have thee same rights than heterosexual people to show love each other.

Other important aspect when we talk about gays people if they can adopt children. Traditionally a family is compound with a father, a mother, sons or and daughters but if two man or two woman can be married we will argue if they can be possible it because there was different morals values, and maybe two people of same sex don 't provide them but I personally believe that they can adopt children because one child can be treat equal with a traditional family as with two fathers or two mothers and maybe it will be better than one child lives with a gay family than he hasn't got any home and he lives  in the street. But here it would change the shapes, I mean the figure of the mother and a father and society argue if child can grow developing his capacity and receive a complete education. 

On the other hand we have to ask if society is prepared for this change. If a child arrives to the school and children laugh because he has two fathers but the cause of it is our mentality and somebody can think that if a child live with two man, he will finish being equal than them , a gay person. However, I disagree with this because it don't depend on it. Normally a gay person doesn't have a gays parents. Several studies is doing for finding out if there is something in our body that it makes a man likes another man or a woman likes other woman. However, I believe than it doesn't depend on it, it simply appears because a woman see in other woman what she is looking for, for example: affection, understanding...

To conclude we have seen that the homosexual people should have the same rights than heterosexual people and they shouldn't receive other treatment simply because they love a people of same sex .The change should start in parent's education because if children see a shape of actuation at home they will finish doing it. I f everybody gradually is going to accept this, our mentality is going to progress. And I think that they can carry out an adoption because children can be received equal affection in a traditional family or in a homosexual family. Other possible solution would be changes since the government .For example society has walked in this fight because nowadays gays people can be married and they are looked ante the law as heterosexual people.
I say that everybody should choose about every aspect of his life and nobody wouldn't put any impediment when someone want to share the rest of her life with a person of his same sex.
