      The legalisation of Marijuana has been discussed for many years but it hasn't been done  yet except in Holland, the only country in Europe where is legal. There are many aspects to be  considered: the uses of it, if it is profitable or not, the impact in the society, and so on. These  are some of the points of view that makes people doubt whether legalise the use of Marijuana.  Till now Marijuana has been illegalised due to several reasons: historical, political,  economical and unhealthy causes. In this essay I intend to discuss different viewpoints about  the legalisation of Marijuana.      Some people believe that one of the uses of Marijuana is as a medicine. It has been used  as a pain-killer and some patients had told their doctors that they felt a relieve of the  symptoms they had such as spasticity from multiple sclerosis, depression, chronic pain, and  nausea associated with chemotherapy. But this use of Marijuana hasn't been legalised because  there are medicines for all that kind of illnesses, besides, the pharmaceutical industries  wouldn't want this product legalised because it would be cheaper than the products they  already have. Besides this, one of the main arguments in favour is that if Marijuana is  legalised as it is considered a soft drug, although it is not true, this could stop people  consuming other drugs much more dangerous such as heroin or cocaine. The proof to this is in  Holland.      On the other hand, there is another use of the Marijuana, the most popular: smoking. Of those  who smoke Marijuana, there are several groups. One of them is, those who smoke a joint  occasionally for example in a party, during the holydays, with friends at home, in a trip, and  so on. The other group is formed by people who smoke many joints without control and  without realising about the side effects that produce on them. It is apparently true that most of  the people in this group are young people. Marijuana affects memory, judgment and  perception. Few minutes after smoking marijuana, people experience dry mouth, rapid  heartbeat, some loss of coordination and poor sense of balance, and slower reaction times and  intoxication. All these harmful effects are one of the reasons that people say against the  legalisation of Marijuana.      Some people think that Marijuana should be legalised just for medical purposes and even  for relaxing from time to time. This would be an acceptable use of this drug. On the other  hand most scientists have proved the bad effects of Marijuana on people's organism. And this  reason is the strongest argument against the legalisation of it. Another important aspect is that  besides those two arguments for and against the legalisation there is another reason why this  drug has been illegalised. This reason was political as much as social because the drug was  used as a pretext to blame and accuse some people of criminal conducts in order not to get  them integrated in the society because most of them were immigrants.      However, Marijuana is just the dried leaves and flowers of the cannabis plant. This plant  grows easily almost anywhere in the world because it doesn't need a great quantity of water  and fertilizers. You can even grow a plant of Marijuana in a flowerpot in the terrace of your  house. Some users also mix Marijuana into foods or use it to make tea. This is why Marijuana  shouldn't be legal and although if the drug is used with therapeutical purposes there are so  many negative things that derivate from the uses of the drug that again, it shouldn't be legal.  In addition to this, there are already medicines that have the same effect as Marijuana and are  less harmful.      In conclusion, we can see that there are many factors concerning the legalisation of  Marijuana. Firstly, the therapeutical use of the Marijuana that could be interesting from the  point of view of new alternative remedies for illnesses. Secondly, the other factor of it is the  use of a drug. This cannot be positive in order to legalise it because of the side effects that  causes on our body such as slower reactions, lost of memories and other types of changes in  the brain. Finally, another aspect for the not legalisation of this drug is the social and political  reasons, although this has been done many years ago.     
