            Nowadays ,the  traffic in Madrid is a worrying problem for its popullation. This involves some important problems in our society such as pollution , traffic jams and traffic accidents. There are a  lot of people who die in road accidents every year. Moreover, traffic jams provoque a waste of time for lots of drivers who qet more and more stress every day and can loose their jobs because of them.  Another important consecuence  is the pollution caused by the traffic.  In fact, some surveys claim that the 80 per cent of the city's pollution comes from the traffic in Madrid and contribuyes to the phenomenon known as global warming, which is changing the climate over the world. In this essay I will suggest some solutions that could reduce the traffic in Madrid.

           To solve this I would suggest that people sould use public transports so as to reduce the number of car movements in the city center. Madrid has a good public transport network, which extends throughout the region. This incluyes lines train, underground and bus.However, some people think that they aren`t good enough and they prefer taveling by car because it is more confortable for them. Besides this, they don`t believe that the situation will improve if they stop using  their own vehicles in the city center. Personally speaking, I feel that using public transport could improve the situation, but they need to be more reliable than they really are.

           It has been argued that the limitation of private vehicles couldn`t be a good solution. However, I strongly believe that paying a special tax would reduce the number of vehicles in the city center. Drivers would stop using their own vehicles as much as posibble and try to use public transports or even would cycle that is  highly used in countries such as Japanese or Chinese. Moreover, this messure has already been taken in some important european cities like Rome or London.

           Another posible solution  to this problem would be build some car parks on the outskirts of Madrid. So, people could park their vehicles there and go to work on foot or by public transports as bus, train or underground. Some people  believe  that this would be a waste of time and a waste of money, because they would  to pay their cars'fuel and also a public transports'tiket.They also claim that this would  involve  so  many building works that impede the traffic in these sububs. But I personally believe that this messure could  reduce traffic jams in Madrid and this could also improve another worrying problem which is the difficulty of finding  car parks in the city center that provoque a waste of time every day for lots of drivers. 

           It is sometimes argued that pedestrianizing some central zones of Madrid can make the traffic worse. But in my opinion, this could be a good option to avoid the step of vehicles to some areas and to achieve this way that the people move on foot inside the city.






          To conclude, there are many possible solutions to reduce problems caused by the traffic in Madrid. All of them focus in the importance of using public transports in this city. But we also need other messures which make people use transports alternative to their own vehicles  such as the limitation of personal vehicles, trying  to move traffic into different sububs and building there some new car parks or doing more pedestrian zones. I believe that it will be very difficult to solve the problem completely. However, if all of us took some of these messures , I'm sure that this situation would improve a lot.
