

    Abortion is an issue that evoques, on many sides, very strong feelings and debates in science, politics and society. This messure is legalized in 54 countries, which is about 61 percent of the world population, over the world such as France, Britain, Italy, China... And  about 39 per cent of the population, have abortion laws that make it illegal in countries like Perú, Poland, Brazil...In Spain it is legal providing some circunstances: when the mother can be damaged with the childbirth, when it is the result of a rape or an incest pregnancy  and when the child is going to be born with physical or mental problems. In this essay, I intend to discuss  the controversial subject of the abortion, trying to analyse the different perspectives.


     Some people are against to the practice of abortion. One  of the main arguments "pro-life" is that the act of choosing to have sex is the act of choosing to accept responsibility for the possible consequences. According to religious beliefs  life begins at conception, so women shouldn't be able to control their own body when it involves killing someone else, even if it is considered a fetus, because for them the unborn child is a human being. Furthermore, it can also be argued that an embryo develops quickly, and by the time abortions take place the heart, the brain, the circulation, and other recognizable organs and organic functions have already exist. Another possible point is that abortion is  not safe, specially if it is practised in clandestine clinics, and practicing abortion could be a serious danger for the mother's health.


     It could be argued that abortion should be legal in some special cases. It is probably true that abortion should be rigth when the childbirth involves a serious danger for the mother's health. Moreover, it also could be argued that  it may be accepted when the pregnancy is the result of a rape or it's an incest pregnancy. In this case, the Spanish legislation allows abortion if it's practised  in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. According to these laws  the mother can abort  when the child is going to be born with physical or mental problems, but many people thinks that handicapped children have the rigth to live.


     On the other hand, one of the main arguments "pro-choice" is that parents should have the freedom and the right to make the decision about their child's life, as to choose sex. It also can be argued that the child is not really a person until its birth because it doesn't have an identity. Moreover, if the parents had an unwanted child, it would probably not be loved. This may be true, however there are other options like giving the child in adoption. Another posible point could be that abortion should be legal just because it would continue being practiced even if it were illegal again.



     In conclusion, there arguments in favour the abortion such as the freedom to choose sex involves the freedom to make the decision of whether their child live or not, having an unwanted child could made parents not love their child and, if abortion was banned there would be more abortions in clandestine clinics. Nevertheless, there are other argument against abortion such as choosing sex is the act of accepting its consequences, women shouldn`t be able to decide about their body when it involves killing the unborn child and practising abortion isn`t totally safe. Finally, there are some people who believe that abortion is right in some special circunstances. I would suggest a recommendation for those women who decided to abort, which is to go to a clinic that is prepared enough to carry out an abortion to avoid potential risks to the mother.

