
Abortion can be defined as "any of various surgical methods for terminating a pregnancy". This has been a vastly debated topic in the last couple of decades and its controversy has, not been solved yet. Modern medicine can, in many cases make a successful abortion without a high risk of killing the mother in the procedure, as a consequence of this, nowadays many women who are pregnant and who do not want to have a baby choose to abort. There are many things to consider and two sides to choose from. Does a woman have the right to abort? The stage at which a foetus becomes a person would justify when abortion is morally accepted? But where do we draw the line? What factors come into play to determine such a time? Now I will discuss different points of view linked to the ethics of abortion.

On one hand, there are various arguments in favour of abortion, especially among the left-wing political parties. Lots of people think that each woman should have the right to decide whether she wants to continue or put an end to gestation according to their quality of life, working situation or their age. These people defend the idea that if a teenage girl is pregnant by accident, as a result of ignorance towards anti conceptive ways of having a sexual relation, she should have the possibility to abort as having a baby in a so tender age would not be suitable for the baby or for her. Another argument used in favour of abortion involves economic status, and working situation. Someone who has not got certain social stability (somewhere to live, certain quantity of money to maintain the future baby) should be able to abort as she does not have the main requirements to bring up and take care of a baby.

On the other hand there are those who are in favour of abortion, this side of the coin claims that since life begins at conception, abortion is a murder as it is the act of taking human life, or even worse than a murder as you are destroying an innocent human being which has not done anything wrong to justify its death. Foetus are considered as proper human beings from the 21st day of  gestation as it has been shown that this is the moment in which the foetus' heart beats for the first time, so according to the pro-life arguments, abortion is not considered a crime until the third week of pregnancy. No civilized society permits one human to intentionally harm or take the life of another human without punishment, and abortion is no different. Studies have shown that a quite significant number of women, who abort, will in some time of their lives regret having done it. People against abortion also sustain that abortion often causes intense psychological and physical pain as a consequence of the remorse for what they consider to be a fatal action.

However there are also those whose opinion about abortion does not fit in either of these viewpoints, this group takes aspects from both extremes and combines them together to form a more flexible opinion. One of their main views is that there are many reasonable ways to get rid of an unwanted baby without actually killing it by abortion, there are couples who cannot have children for biological reasons and they would be delighted to adopt babies whose families do not want to keep them, this is not only an opinion but also a solution to this moral problem as every one would be happy and satisfied. In case of rape they say that abortion is not necessary as proper medical care can ensure that a woman will not get pregnant.

In conclusion, it is very clear that there is a great conflict of opinions as some are in favour while others are against abortion. The opinions for abortion focus on giving more importance to the mother's life than to the baby's while the arguments against abortion focus on the opposite, paying more attention to the baby and its right to live. Both of them are strong and well supported.  Apart of the two extremes, there is however another set of opinions which are more in the middle and that appear to be much more open and reasonable as they do not just criticise the other possible views but try to bring together the two extremes and build up a way to solve the problem. It could be argued that this is a difficult problem to solve if looked at from the point of view of each of the extremes, as it is complicated to decide who has more rights, the baby or the mother, the best way to look at it is from the middle point of view. History has proved that extremes never work. 

