


Nowadays most big cities have to deal with a very big problem, traffic congestion. Everyone who lives in a city will probably be familiar with pollution, being literally trapped for long hours on the road or stuck in a traffic jam during an emergency. These are the evils of today's cities and some of the consequences of this growing problem. 
Madrid is the capital city of Spain and it is a perfect example of a city in which traffic has become an important problem to deal with. In this essay I will show what I think are some of the possible solutions for traffic problems in Madrid.

Traffic jams in Madrid take place at precise moments during the day, of course some of them are due to car accidents or other causes but the majority occurs almost every day at the same time, precisely at the famous morning and evening rush hours which can also be referred to as office traffic. So how can this be tackled? I think that a good solution to the so called office traffic would be a rotation of the office timings every month, although this cannot be applied to every type of business it would certainly help as employees would be able to get to work and back to their homes quickly, no road rage, no frustration and less traffic.

Another solution would be to use public transport. Madrid's underground is one of the most modern underground transports in Europe and there is also a fast bus and train service, so why don't use it to go to work? It is true that lots of people do not like the idea of getting into those crammed buses and trains when they can go to work to their offices in AZCA (Madrid's financial and top business area) in their wonderful and luxurious Mercedes Benz. A way of making these modern gentlemen use public transport in my opinion is to have for example luxury buses for them. I know it is difficult to sell this idea as the majority of people are not so exquisite but who knows; perhaps it would have a positive effect in the problem.

Pollution is one of the most relevant traffic problems in Madrid, it is not just a question of making people late to work; it destroys our planet, so an efficient way of reducing traffic problems in this city in my opinion, would be to use bicycles (as they are much smaller and can be parked easier) for short city distances instead of the car, this solution has already been applied in many European cities and its results have been excellent not only because it reduces traffic congestion but also because it is a clean mean of transport.

Many people who work in Madrid do not actually live in the city itself  but in the outskirts or other towns which are not far away as they prefer to live away from the restless and overcrowded city, so if homes and offices were nearer, traffic problems would be reduced. When companies plan building their huge offices, they should also build a few apartment complexes close by. However it is not a perfect solution, many people might prefer to live out of Madrid in a more peaceful place and in my opinion 


they have the right to do so. I personally would not like not to be able to choose where I want to live.

In conclusion, I think that traffic problems in Madrid are very difficult to be solved completely as it is impossible that everyone stops using cars and starts riding bikes to move around in the city, it is also very difficult in my opinion to make people live next to their offices and jobs, and as I have already said, although these solutions can be useful to deal with traffic, in some cases they can probably seem unfair. In addition I also think that there is, in some way a sort of shyness among Spaniards to be seen going to work in a bike, it is the only way I can understand the "Madrileños' negative to use bicycles, as in many other European cities, bicycles have long ago taken cars' place.
However I think the solutions I have mentioned would make Madrid a much more pleasant city if they were applied and even if the problem was not completely solved, it would certainly contribute to improve the situation.
