	After several reforms during the past decades, the Spanish educational system still does not satisfy the public as far as the quality it produces is concerned. Quite on the contrary: statistics regarding school failure and drop-out rates have never been so negative, and the lack of interest in pursuing university studies is manifest. Some political parties, such as Izquierda Unida, think that the solution to this problem is to change the minimun schooling age from 16 years to 18 years of age. But is this a good idea? In this essay I will try to demonstrate that the solution is, contrary to what has been said, to maintain the current minimum schooling age and to help each person to pursue the future appropiate for him or her.

	First, we must understand that not everyone has the same prospects and goals in life, and that it is only fair that individuals be able to start preparing themselves early for their future jobs. If a person wants to be a carpenter or electrician, he or she is wasting his or her time studying something as complicated and useless (for him or her) as square roots, when he or she could be learning how to cut wood or install electrical appliances. This would, of course, create an even larger contrast between white collar jobs and blue collar ones, but at least it would allow each individual enough time to prepare the sort of future he or she envisions. Currently, blue collar jobs are seen as lesser valued choices, and this is due to the fact that it appears that one does not have to know much to do them properly. Rather, what we are really doing is underpreparing future workers and then criticising them for the careers they have chosen.

	On the other hand, by confining these unmotivated students in classrooms, we are undermining the overall quality of education. Teachers have to lower the level of teaching so that everyone, both attentive and unattentive students, can get good marks in their exams. By doing this we are simply putting a noose around those better qualified pupils due to our forcing kids who do not want to be there to pursue a line of study which means little to them. So, as we said before, by letting those who feel like it shift to other types of education, we can better further the potential of, on one hand, future professionals, and on the other, those not interested in pursuing a university career.

	Last but not least, sometimes students have to leave school because they need to earn money. Schooling implies a cost, whether it be high or low, and it keeps some persons from being able to work. If the law is changed and students are required to study until they are eighteen, who is to feed their family or to pay the bills in the cases it which it is necessary? It is true that education is not only a right but also a duty, but even moreso is the pressing need to eat and live in minimally decent conditions.

	In conclusion, we cannot and should not cut our population's wings and abilities due to the false pretense of thinking that the more we oblige them to stay in school the more they will learn, especially if they really have reasons not to attend these classes and to be earning money outside the school. What we should do is to help everyone to be the best at whatever he or she wants to do, be it to pursue a career or any other option. In my opinion, the best way this could be done is to divide the obligatory attendance years (up to 16 years of age) into two phases. The first would consist of regular and equal classes for everyone, and the second would involve a formation period of two years which would then help each individual choose the specialization he or she prefers. After that, everyone would be free and ready to live whichever way he or she wants. 
