    
          Nowadays, almost every family has a car, and some people are used to take it every day. This, added to the increase of population, the fact that many people from the surroundings come to work to the city by car, and several obstacles -such as the diversion of some roads because of public works- has become traffic a serious problem which seems to be increasing more and more each day in Madrid. From my point of view, it is a problem which could be solved if we apply some solutions, so in this essay I am going to explain four possible solutions which I think might reduce the traffic problems in Madrid.
          First, I believe that one possible solution may be invest more money in improving public transport -increasing the number of buses and trains, and reducing the prices of the tickets, for example-. By this way, we could persuade to some people to do not take their cars for moving along the city. Nevertheless, some citizens feel that public transport is a slow way to travel. However, as I see it, if we increase the number of buses and trains, public transport would be faster than travelling by car.
          Second, in my view, another possible solution would be place tolls at the city centre and at the surroundings, so people would have to pay each time that they travel around that places -except for people who travel by public transport-. Of course, it is possible to argue that it is not fair, because some people do not have enough resources to pay at a toll everyday, or because they do not come to the city often and so they are on their right of not paying. But it seems to me that tolls would discourage to lot of people from taking their cars, and they would start to take public transport to avoid paying everyday, so traffic would be reduced a lot.
          Third, it appears to me that other possible solution would be ban the use of cars in some zones -except for public transport- mainly where the traffic is usually bigger. By this way, the roads would be emptier, and so public transport would move faster, because driving along that places would be easier. However, some people argue that it could cause several access problems, because it is difficult to get to some places if you can not take your own car. Nevertheless, I think that if we allow only public transport to go there, you could get wherever you need easily and faster, because there would be less traffic jams around there.
          Next, from my point of view, another solution would be foment the use of bicycles for moving along the city by creating cycles' furrows in all roads. As I see it, cycling is a healthy way of travelling, and it is very fast if you have to go somewhere near your house. On the other hand, many people think that invest in such a thing is a waste of money and time, because there are only few people who move along the city by bike. However, I believe that a lot of people do not use their bike because it is dangerous to cycling between the cars, so the number of cyclists would increase if we give them more facilities to move by that way.
           In conclusion, this essay has presented four possible solutions which in my view could help to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid: Improve the public transport, make that the drivers of private cars have to pay to travel around some places, forbid the use of private cars at several zones, and promote the use of bicycles. I believe that if the government and the citizens work together and we all carry out these measures, we would solve the traffic problems in Madrid soon.
