                                                                                                    

          The practice of abortion is extended along lot of countries. Abortion is the interruption of foetus' development during the pregnancy. It could happen because of natural reasons 
-some kind of complication, and so on- or it could be caused by petition of the mother. The second case is absolutely legal in some countries; in other countries it depends on the situation -if the pregnancy could be dangerous for the mother's life, or if the child could not survive, for example, it is allowed-, and in other places, it is illegal at any case. This has created several discussions -mainly moral discussions- about if abortion is right or not. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.

          To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of abortion. Many people think that each woman should have the right to decide if she wants to have or not the child. Some people also believe that it is a decision of the parents, and so they should decide freely if they want to continue with the pregnancy or not, depending on several matters -such as the economic resources that they may have, because it is necessary to invest money on the child, and they could may not have it-. However, some people feel that if the mother does not want to have the baby, or if parents can not maintain the child, they should have him -or her- anyway, and then they can choose several options, such as give the child in adoption.

          Second, there are different arguments against abortion. Some people believe that it is a murder, because you are avoiding that a new child come to this world. Many people also argue that the mother does not have any authority to decide if the child should born or not, because the future baby is also a human being, and so he -or her- has the right to live. In addition, religious people claim that human being's life is only at God's hands, and so parents can not choose if the baby should live or not. These arguments seem to make sense, because we should respect the life of the future child. Nevertheless, it does not seem fair to base this decision on God, because there are a lot of people who are not religious.

          Third, there are other people who are in favour of abortion, but only in few cases. It could be argued that if the woman has been raped, she is in her right to abort, because in this case having the baby could carry several psychological injuries for the mother. Others feel that abortion should be allowed if the pregnancy is dangerous for the mother's life, or if the child would born with some kind of serious disease, and so the possibilities of his survival are very reduced. Another possible viewpoint is that the mother should abort if she can not afford the child's maintenance and education -for example, because of lack of money-. Although these viewpoints appear to be persuasive, they have certain weaknesses. Some people say that the life of the baby has priority -because the mother has had a life, and the baby has the right to start it too-, and furthermore, many people argue that if you can not bring up the child, you could give him in adoption.

          In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments both defending and condemning abortion. Some of them deal with the freedom of the mother to choose if she wants to have the baby or not, with the resources that parents have for bringing up the child, and with the doubt about if it is a murder or not. Other arguments accept abortion only in specific circumstances, such as in a dangerous pregnancy, in a rape, and when parents do not have money to maintain the child. The arguments against abortion appear more reasonable, because it could be argued very convincingly that anybody has the right and the authority to decide if a child, a human being, should live or not.
