The Spanish education system stipulates that only pupils who have finished secondary education can give up school, and if a student is 16 or 17, but he hasn't finished it he can't give up his studies. Then, in Spain the level of your studies is given more importance than the age you are when you decide to continue or leave school. In spite of this, if a pupil is a good student and he never repeats a year, he will finish secondary education with 16 years of age and he doesn't have to continue. Personally speaking, I believe that education should be compulsary up to 18 and in this essay I intend to explain why I have this strong opinion.

	To start with, in my country you can't drive a car if you aren't 18 or more, under 18 years of age nobody can drink alcoholic drinks legally, and people can't vote. In spite of this, you can decide about something as important as your future with only 16. It can be suggested that driving involves more resposabilities, beacause if you have a car accident another people can suffer it too. For this, if when you are 18 it is supposed that you are more responsible, I think we must decide about our studies with this age and not earlier. If you aren't adult enough with 17 to drive, you aren't to give up your studies and detemine your future. 

	A consequence of this kind of secondary education is that pupils can give up school earlier. Spain is one of the European countries with most dropping out, as many surveys show. Firt, youngesters of 16 star to work, and they have their own money. Then, they can think that earning money is very easy and you can have it working in many factories. All of a sudden, they give up school and start to work in job with low salaries. This money can be enough when you are younger and you only need money for free time. But when you are older, this money will be inadequate. I believe that if pupils can't give up before their 18 years, they will have more oportunities to have a good job with a good salary, and they will be older to realise that the money earned isn't enough to live on. Dropping out has another consequence: the low level of Spanish education. 

	Many surveys show that Spain si at the bottom of the pile in Europe, speaking about studying level. Students aren't interested in theis future, and they leave school or have bad marks. This has many consequences. First, Spain has, as I have said, a bad level os studying. Second, spanish universities have less students and the level is lower too, because the try to make it look easy. Third, without students, Spains is going to need foreing profesionals and spanish are going to have to work in jobs with low salaries. For mi part, I believe that if students have to be at school longer, they will be mature enough yo make a good decision, study more, have good marks and they will be able to have a good job in the future.

	To summarise, Spanish education systemm says that people can decide about their future with 16 years of age, and they can give up the school with this age. It's quite difficult to understand why 18 is the age for driving or drinking, but it isn't the age for deciding about your studies. Droppping out is a consequence of the system and it contributes to the level of education in Spain. Surveys show how our country is one of the euroean countries with less students in the classrooms and one of the countries with less educational level. If the system isn't changed, dropping out will increase and the level of Spanish education will be lower than now. Government, teachers and parents must take charge, because our fuutre is at stake. 
