      The debate about if abortion is a wrong practice or not, and if it must be legal, it's one of the most polemic discussions of our times. Medical techniques can stop pregnacies, and parents, couples or women who don't want babies have an option which people wouldn't have before. But discussions about abortion have to bear in mind different points of view. On one hand, the medical opinion about the dangers of having an abortion, both physical and psychological dangers. On the other hand it's moral opposition, for example Catholic Chucrh. In addition, the doubt about if abortion may be a legal practice or not. In this essay, different views about abortion will be analyzed.

	Medical opinion is going to be the first point in being discussed. Doctors agree that abortion must be practiced in the first trimester of pregnancy. They agree with the methods which are better, too. Chemical abortion is the safest. Doctor Richard U. Hausknecht, an expert in Obstetrics and Gynecology, has created an abortion drug which was effective in 96 % of 176 women who wanted to abort. But, in spite of the pro-abortion doctors, experts like doctor Joseph Brumer disagree with abortion. It had several consequences, as infections, bleedings or even infertility. The immediate risks are, more or less, 10 %. But longterm risks are between 20 % and 50 %. Psychological risks are very important too, like post-abortion syndrome. Researchs show that between 50 and 60 millions women have an abortion around the wold in a year, and about 500.000 of these women die. These informations show us that abortion has many consequences too. But, if you are sure that you want to abort, there are different and secure ways of doing it.

	Another viewpoint to bear in mind is people against abortion for moral causes. The main reason which these people give against this practice is that the fetus is a life. According to them, the fetus is a living being, such as a tree or a dog. And if all of us are obviously against killing living beings, they maintain that abortion is another kind of murder. More reasons to disagree with abortion which they give are about the health of the mother. As we have said, abortion entails risks for the woman like infections or depressions. There are many associations against the practice we are speaking about, but perhaps the most well-known is the Catholic Church and the catholic associations related with it. For example, a mexican association called Pray for Mexico organiced a collection of signatures against abortion. All their arguments are apparently true, and it's reasonable to argue that abortion is a wrong practice not only for the medical dangerous but for ethical reasons as understanding abortion as a murder. However, there are opinions which can convince us of the opposite view.

	The opposite point of view is the viewpoint of people who understand abortion like a right practice. They give several reasons to supporting abortion. One of these reasons is that women who don't want to have a baby must have freedom to choose, and it's better for the baby, because if it is born but its mother doesn't want it, the baby isn't going to have a good life. Another reasons are related with victims of sexual abuses, like rapes or pederasty. An example of these associations is Catholic for a Free Choice, an American association which speaks about abortion with a catholic perspective. People pro-abotion think that it has to be a right, because if we are free to decide about many other points of our lifes, we must have freedom to choose in this too. So, here we have a group of people who agree with abortion has a legal practice.

	The history of abortion shows us many changes from a legal to an illegal practice. In Ancient Rome, abortion was allowed because they thought the fetus isn't a person. But about s. XVIII many countries created laws against abortion. With s. XX, these laws changed, and abortion started to be a legal and a right practice when the mother's life was in danger. Nowadays, only a few countries like Andorra, the Philippines or the Vatican are totally against abortion. Other countries consider abortion as legal, but with conditions. Having an abortion is legal when the mother's life is in risk, she has psychological poroblems or she's a victim of a sexual abuse. This happens in countries like Grat Britain. Other countries like Spain, the most of African countries or Brazil, understand abortion as illegal, apart from victims of sexual abuses or illness. But, in most countries around the world it's totally legal. Then, in spite of oppositions and associations against abortion, this is a legal practice in many countries. 

	To sum up, we can say that there are many arguements related with two stronger different points of view. On one side, we have doctors, experts and people agree with abortion. According to them, abortion is a safe and right practice and it must be legal. On other side, there are people against abortion because they consider it a murder, a dangerous and wrong practice. They argue that abortion can't be legal. In spite of all these points of view, abortion has to be controlled, because too many women die each year around the world as victims of backstreet abortions. 






	
