

		Nowadays, the education is one of the most important problems in Spain, and it worries a lot of people. According to a survey of a newspaper the education is among the ten firsts worries of Spain. As a result of this, the governments have tried to improve the educational system in Spain, for prevent the schoolgirl failure, and for this they have changed the curriculums and they have increase the age of schooling from the fourteen years to the sixteen years in 1993. I personally believe that the education should be obligatory until the eighteen years, and in this essay I intend to argue the main advantages to study until the eighteen years old.

      Firstly, I personally feel that the obligatory education until the eighteen years might reduce the number of young people staying in the streets committing an offence or drinking alcohol, for example. To begin with, it is not good, because the teenagers have to be in the school learning not in the street almost the whole day. Secondly, the obligatory education could weaken the gangs of teenagers like latin gangs (the Latin Kings, for example) or the Skinheads. However, it could be argued that the teenagers will have the same habits that now even if the education is obligatory. But I feel that the young people will have more obligations and more things to study, and so they will be more responsible, and I believe that the young people are interested in continued their studies, because seldom a study the 94% of the teenagers that finish the E.S.O study the Bachillerato.
      
      Secondly, it is sometimes argued that the people that have an university degree do not find a job easily in their specialities. However I am of the opinions that if the young people have a speciality, they will get a better job than the others that have not one because they have more preparation and more education for access to a good job. I have read in a newspaper the last week that the people that have a degree multiply their salaries in five years. So I believe that the education, as much the university degrees as the vocational training, is essential to get a stable and a good job.
      
      Finally, it seems to me that the obligatory education until the eighteen years might reduce the unemployment between the teachers. If the education is obligatory, 
there will be more students in the secondary schools, and in consequence it will be necessary more teachers. This is a good thing because a lot of new jobs will be created and the unemployment will descend. The last year in Spain the unemployment was an 8.6% of the active population, whereas in the U.E the unemployment was only a 6.8%, according with Eurostat (European of Statistics Office). Though, there are those who think that the unemployment between the teachers will not reduce seeing that the number of students in each class will go up but not the number of teachers. Personally speaking, I believe that this is not going to happen because there are at present attempts of reducing the number of students in each class, for example the Bologna agreement says that the number of students per group at the universities must be about twenty, so it will be necessary more teachers for fulfil objective.

	To conclude, the increase of the age of schooling is in my view the best way to solve or to reduce some problems like the unemployment between the young people and between the teachers or the juvenile delinquency. For my part, I believe that it would be good to motivate to the students, for continue studying, with subjects or with classes that attract the young people and can help them to find a better future job.
