
Abortion has been one of the most controversial problems in recent years. Abortion is the interruption of the pregnancy for natural or not natural causes. The Spanish legislation accepts the abortion only in three cases: when the mother has high risk of dying, when the pregnancy has been a result of a rape or when the baby has malformations. However, nowadays a lot of private clinics do abortions out of these conditions and of the established time by the law: twelve weeks of gestation if the pregnancy is a result of a rape, twenty-two weeks if the baby has malformations and there are not temporal limitations if the mother is in risk. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the main viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.
Firstly, there are several arguments in favour of abortion. Some people believe that each mother and father, specially the mothers, should have the right to decide if they want to have a baby. Those who support this argument feel that because of the parents have created the baby, they have the right to decide about his life or his death. In addition, those "pro-election" argue that if the parents cannot look after the child, because they are too young or they have not money, it is better to him not to born to that he is ill-treated or abused. These arguments may be true, but in lot of cases the mother decide the future of the foetus and she does not consult to the father, so in these cases the father would not have right to decide on the life of his own son.
Secondly, there are some arguments against abortion, specially defended by catholic people. These feel that the abortion does not respect the rights that the fetus has as being a human being because though the child has not born still, according to people "pro-life" there are scientific studies that say the heart of the fetus pumps blood to the eighteen days of his conception. Dr. Norman L. Geisler, an american university teacher, is against the abortion and claims that fourteen millions of life have been missed in ten years in the United States with the abortions. The problem with these arguments in favour of the penalty of the abortion are that seem to commit an outrage against the human rights of the woman like the right to the life, to the freedom or to the intimacy... and violate the right that has the woman to control her body, according to "pro-election" people.
Finally, there are intermediate positions in the topic of the abortion. These people are in favour of the abortion in extreme cases: when the foetus has malformations, when the mother is in risk or when the pregnancy is a result of a rape, for example in this last case the woman did not want to have a son, so according to these intermediate groups, the woman has the right to have an abortion in this case. Another possible viewpoint in this group is that the contraceptive modern methods and the sexual education are indispensable to reduce the number of abortions. They agree with "pro-life" groups in the dignity and the value of the human life, but they do not agree in the moment in which the life begins. With regard to this topic, Peter Singer says that the development of a human being is a gradual process, if we take a cigote, immediately after the conception it is difficult to feel disturbed by his death. The problem with this position is that does not respect the right of election of the mother in the majority of the cases.
To sum up, we can observe that there are many arguments in favour and against abortion. Some of them accept the right of the woman to control and decide about her own body; and the others defend the rights of the foetus as being a human being. There are others arguments that accept abortion only in special situation but not in others. On balance, it would seem more reasonable the arguments in favour because they respect more individual rights of a woman, since according to religious positions a believer who wanted to abort might not because it would go in opposition to God's desires. However, the main problem in this topic might be to decide what may be more important, the mother's rights or the baby's rights.








