

Abortion has gained huge relevance in the last decades in the stack of controversial moral subjects. The advance in medical techniques have helped to reduce the trauma the woman will obviously experiment. However,everyone does not agree with the way that this theme is being developed. Nevertheless, abortion in some case is legal but in the most of cases is not morally accepted. Lets analyse different fronted viewpoints about if abortion is considered correct or incorrect.

First of all, there are several arguments against abortion. Some studies made in USA shows that abortion can cause physical harm such as: cancer of breast, cancer of  ovaries, cancer of liver ...and in the extreme case the death of patient because of infections, haemorrhages, anaesthesia, embolism...etc. In Canada, Finland, Swiss, France, Spain and in USA some investigations have been made and the results show that abortion can also cause psychological sequels for example depression, hostility and even suicide. The "Real academy of obstetrics" has demonstrated that the 59% of women who have been  made an abortion have tried to suicide or, at least, they thought about it.

 Moreover, there is another strong viewpoint against abortion wielded religious people, specially catholics, who think that abortion means one of the most cruel moral transgressions. Catholic Church mantain that menas murder. They essencially come to say that: firstly, only God has the power to give or finish life; and secondly, having a son is the main result of marriage, and it should never be a cause of sadness, but a cause for great hapiness. 

There are, however,some more arguments related with abortion, which depend on the degree of the fetus, the risk the mother face, and several points we are about to expose. First, some people would say that if a women has been raped, she has full right to decide wheter or not to have that baby, taking into account that he will be the perpetration of an act of butality, that it is what doctors call 'sentimental abortion'. Second,what can be considered the 'indirect abortion' like another option, in this case is when the mother's life is in danger, but it is not only to save mother's life, doctors try to save baby's life too, although in most of case the baby doesn't survive.

Keeping close to medical way of procceeding, 'eugenic abortion' means getting rid of the baby as soon as it is known that he has any kind of deficience. People will agree with the idea that parents will have problems to take care of the child and it will cost a lot of money for them, but anyway it can be considered as a great lack of responsibility and selfishness. Another problem that must be taken into account is the number of clandestine clinics that face the risk of aborting for a high quantity of money, but giving no warranty of professionality and safety for the desperate woman.


On the other hand, one of the main arguments in favour and in which  some people agree with is that the fetus until the third month could not be not considered as a human so it would not have any rights. Some researchers believe that giving to the set of functional cells the same rights and the same status of a child it is to go against the international convention of the right of the child. In consequence of this, many people would judge impropriated the term "killing a child", since many people will not consider a fetus as a kid so it is reasonable to argue that any crime it is committed.

There could be still others arguments in favour of abortion. One of these could be that the child must be, mainly, desired. Some people could argue that if a child is not "planned" the consequences of that will be paid against the baby, because sometimes the mother could be violent with her son / daughter for the reason that she will blame the kid. Other reason that apparently could be true is that the mother should choose what to do with her body. Some patients could agree that it will be like a aesthetic surgery because it is just a modification of the body.


In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments against physical and psychological dangers, which could be consider a strong point against to legalization of the abortion. On the other hand we can find many arguments in favour such as the baby could be not measured as a child, that the baby reasonability should be considered a "desire kid" and that women might have the rights to choose about their bodies. On balance of this, abortion is seen as a bad idea because many people could see it as a crime and as a danger for the mother unless there are some reasonable reasons, like other people believes. An improvable solution would be let each person do whatever he / she wants, we are supposed to be free.


