

The increasing school failure is an issue with a higher significance nowadays due to the nefast repercussions it has on the quality of the spanish education. I my view,it is strongly necessary to find some solutions to this problem and one of them could be to extend the compulsory education until 18 years old, that is to say, Bachillerato. In this essay I would try to give reasons in advantage to this change but mentioning some points against it.

One of the main arguments comes from the obvious improvement of the national talent. It seems to me that everyone who has studied bachillerato believes that those two years are not a simply complement but a solid training in subjects such us culture, history or sciences, and this knowledge allows people to be open minded in our society. So, it could be good for everyone those years to  make themselves grow and make Spain grow.

Secondly, i feel that bachillerato helps to develop and improve the work specifiation and therefore it creates a growing-up industria and economy in our country. My personal opinion of this argument is that we can't refuse the fact that a person who has only studied until 16 years old  is not as prepared as another one who has completed his academic career until the majority. On the other hand, to be more qualified bachillerato should me more specific, and it is not.

Of course, not everything is a "pro" in the possible aplication of this initiative. I personally feel that the main disadvantage would be the economic pressure for some families which really need that their children earn some money and bring it home as well as the pressure to a young person who knows that his / her family is investing an effort and a money which they haven't at all and that this effort is given for a future which would be really competitive and uncertainly sure.

Finally, I just can conclude saying that this is a difficult initiative above all because education is, in my view, a hard business that we should improve. It is necessary to became aware of the importance of the youngs' learning and that each measure has to guarantee the protection and the fostering of the studies with aim of create better citiziens. If all those lead to extend the minimum schooling age, let's do it.


