Abortion has been a very controversial problem in recent decades. The advances of medicine give women who for some reason don't want or can't have a baby the possibility to interrupt their pregnancy within 12 weeks of the conception. However, this chance is not always considered to be moral and therefore there exist a great number of pro-life (anti-abortionists) associations and some countries such as Peru, Zimbabwe, Brazil, Argentina etc in which abortion is ilegal, unless the woman is in danger because of her pregnancy. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the morality of abortion.
Firstly, there are some arguments in favour of abortion. Some people consider abortion as a positive alternative for those women who simply do not want to have a baby (for whatever reason); those who have been raped, can't have a baby for economical matters, aren't psychologically abled, are too young to understand the responsability of having a baby or any other reason that could prevent the baby and the mother from having a good life. This means giving the mother full control over her and over her posible future baby. Anne Weyman, Chief Executive of the Family Planning Association (UK), maintains that abortion is an essential element of sexual health services because most of the times it prevents the mother and the baby from suffering. As Dr. Alfred Bongiovanni from the University of Pennsylvania argues, we are very well aware of the danger associated with illegal abortions, and that therefore we should claim for a legalization of abortion in every country so that no woman will have to abort illegally. A lot of the governments from the rich countries such as the US, France, South Africa or China share this opinion and permit full legal access to abortion.

On the other hand, there are some arguments against abortion, mostly maintained by religious people. Anti-abortionists argue that an embryo is the least developed phase of a human, but that it is still a human being ; that is to say that if the pregnancy is not interrupted this embryo will become a person like any of us. According to this point of view, killing an embryo is similar to killing a person. As the spokespeople from the Spainish Catholic Church say, we shouldn't forget that all of us have been an embryo and that if our mothers had decided to abort, we wouldn't be here. Another religious group, the Fundamentalist Christian Anti-Abortion Association, maintains that even though the mothers aren't responsible of a pregnancy caused by rape, the future baby shouldn't pay for it by dying; instead, the mother must give birth to the baby and if at the end she doesn't want to take care of  him, she should let another family adopt him. Some countries such as Botswana, Jamaica and Malaysia do not allow any kind of abortion.

There are also a number of mid-point opinions concerning abortion. Most of these opinions argue that abortion is moral but whithin limits. They maintain that a woman should be allowed to abort if: she has been raped, there exists a malformation of the foetus that will cause the death of the baby or if the woman could suffer any phisical or psychological problem. Although, in some cases, people from this group might not consider all of these reasons important enough to approve abortion, it depends on the situation. The governments from many countries such as Spain, Great Britain or Barbados share this kind of position, they allow abortion in most of the cases, but the woman has to justify why she wants to abort and in many cases the father has to give his approvement. Although most of the religious associations are against abortion, there are some religious people who accept it -in specific circumstances- such as Consuelo Mejía from the association "Católicas por el derecho a decidir" (Catholic women for the right to decide) who argues that it is not inmoral to let a woman who has been raped abort, because if the woman is forced to continue with her pregnancy the baby will not be loved by his mother. Although, this kind of associations do not accept any other reason for abortion.

In conclusion, we can see that there are many opinions for and against abortion. Some of them accept and approve it no matter what, arguing that every human being should have the right to chose, while on the other hand there are some groups of people, such as the church or the pro-life asociations, who condemn it for being inmoral, as they consider that we become humans at the conception. Also, there is a great number of people whose opinions aren't so extreme as the ones from the pro and against people. These people accept abortion only in specific circumstances and reject it in others. It could be argued whether or not it is fair to prevent a woman who for some reason needs or wants to abort from doing it; sometimes it is hard to decide who is more important: the mother or the future baby.




      

