      It is clear that a strong education system is a key aspect for most of the governments in the rich world, we can be aware of this if we listen to a meeting of any political party. However, not every government agrees whether students should be obligated to go to school until they are 18 years old or not. Educational failure is a fact in Spain and it has recently been debated if the great number of kids who quit school before the age of 18 has something to do with it. I personally think that making education compulsory until the age of 18 is not something our government should do. In this essay I will explain the disadvantages of forcing students to attend school until they are 18. 
      To begin with, I personally feel that making education obligatory up to 18 years old means forcing students to do something they might not want or need to do, and therefore eliminating the opportunity to choose, which should always be there.We all know that a person who has studied for several years is more likely to get a good job than another who hasn't, so there is no point on trying to change the students' mind. It seems to me that if a 16 year-old kid decides to quit school, he knows what kind of life he is going to face. I believe that if at the age of 16 a person is mature enough to work he should be able to make decisions about their life as well. Some people might argue that not all 16 year-old kids are mature enough to make that kind of decisions and that therefore, all of them must be obligated to finish their studies. However, I think this idea is not fair; in my opinion those students who really know they want to work instead of studying shouldn't be treated like those students who want to drop out because of their lazyness, and that is why counselors exist, to orientate those who should stay and those who can manage themselves in the real world.
      Secondly, I would say that studying is something a person does because he/she wants to. By this I mean that in my opinion keeping kids in the classes doesn't mean that these kids will study; they will be in the classes, but if their choice is not to study they won't do it no matter how many years they spend in school . Some Spanish associations and political parties such as Izquierda Unida, suggest in their campaigns that by obligating kids to go to class untill they are 18 they will finally accept it and do well at school; from my point of view instead of encouraging kids to continue with their studies this meassure would put them against the education system, no one likes to be forced to do anything and so I believe it will create a feeling of antipathy ending up in a higher high school dropout percentage. As Mercedes Cabrera  - minister of education- points out, the number of dropouts before getting a Baccalaureate Diploma has droped form 31.7% to 30.8% in this last year, unlike some other countries in which education is compulsory until the students are 18 years old, such as the United States of America (most of the States) where every year the percentage of dropouts rises.
      Another disadvantage according to my point of view is that obligating kids who don't want to study to attend school will impair those who really want to keep learning. This will lower the level of all the students in a class, as a research made by "Associació Plataforma TDAH"  shows: students aged 16 from two different classes took a maths and a writing test; the grade obtained by the class with less people who wanted to drop out  was a 25% higher than the grade obtained by the class with more people who wanted to drop out. I tend to believe that these students who don't want to continue with their studies lower the level of a class, meaning that the students who want to stay at school will not learn as much as they could, not because the ones who want to drop out are less inteligent but because of their lack of desire to learn. Some teachers argue that everybody should be well educated no matter what, but I believe that there are some kids who really don't need to study that much because they might not need studies for what they want to do in the future. Personally speaking I feel that sometimes dropping out and spending their time on earning money is more useful than wasting their time doing nothing and in some way impairing other students.
      Today the Spanish Government is investing 4.30% of the public spending in education; this is much less than what other European Governments invest (Denmark 7.1%, Belgium 6.4%, France 6.1% etc); some people like the politicians from the IU use these statistics as an argument to say that the Spanish government should spend as much as the rest of the europeans by making education compulsory untill the age of 18, I agree that more money should be spent on education,  but I believe it should be spent on elementary and secondary education so that students are more prepared to face the real world at the age of 16 if they need to. It is true that more money should also be spent on students over 18, but just for those who want it and deserve it. I tend to believe that spending money on making education obligatory until 18 means spending money on those who don't want to study and therefore it means a great waste of money. 
      In conclusion, it is clear from my point of view that to extend the obligatory education from 16 to 18 years old isn't a good idea nor for the students who want to drop out or the students who want to continue their studies. Plus, it seems to me that is a waste of time for the teachers and the students and a waste of money for the government. I believe that in this case more doesn't mean better and that those two extra years of compulsory education aren't practical for anybody.
      

