Nowadays, obligatory education in Spain is until 16 years old. However, even today, in other countries from many parts of the world, like Holand or Geat Britain (in a next future) in Europe, have improved that age untill 18 years old. Is this a good idea? Which is the best age to give up to study? And which is the most correct age to start working? Is it good for Spain, if we copy to these countries and we improve to 18 years the age for obligatory education? In this essay I am going to explain why it seems to me that age is very suggestable for us if we copy those examples, in contrast to the otherside, that defend obligatory education shouldn't be up to 18 years.

I personally belive that age should be up to 18 years old but not so simple. It apperas to me that young people from 16 to 18 years cannot be ready for working yet, because of they haven't got level and formation enough. Today, a 16 year old boy without education can be working, and big factories and enterprises are able to abuse and explode these young people paying less them and making them to working more. My own view is that improving obligatory education age, we'll find that we have better jobs and better quality of coditions in them. Many people will say that solution is not good enough, because there are some students under 18 who really don't want to study. One possible answer for me to this is to create new study ways to these groups that don't want study more, focusing that studies in vocation training thinking in their future. These studies would contain less teorical classes, and more practical and would be in the way to prepare the student for a job. Nevertheless, too many people think that a 16 year old boy is old enough to decide what he want to do with his future, and are able to give up the school and start working. In my opinion, the classes and sometimes the teachers, are too boring for a teenager who is the school "under obligation", and as a consequence these students fail their exams.

Another thing I think it's important is cultural aspect.. I strongly belive that studying is best and the easiest way to improve our own culture. A person who have study the French Revolution or the Second World War in History, the Romanticism in Literature, or Dalí and the surrealism in Art, I think is very much rich than other one who have never listened something of this, at least in intelectual concepts. Many people can say that it is not important if a teenager want to work, because he needs to learn just the necessary to work and to do his job properly. For my part, an intelligent person who have culture, hobbies and interest for doing things, is nowadays, essential.

In my opinion, society is basic too. A 16 year old boy is, in fact, a teenager. I belive the teenagers are people more inclined to be influence, either by their parents, or by their family, or by their friends, or even by their partners in class. Any of them can convince to these teen to let the school out or to take a wrong decition that could affect their future in the wrong way. Personally speaking, I stongly belive that a 18 year old boy is old enough to commit mistakes and to learn of them, but a 16 year old boy is too young already. In contrast to my opinion, there are people who belive that their children are adults with 16 years and they can decide their future by themselves. It is obiously that each person is an "own world" and we can't do global veredicts, but I strongly think that if a 16 or 17 year old boy can't go to jail or can't drink alcohol or driving a car, he won't be adult enough to leave the school and look for a job.
Finally, there is another thing that is important in my view. It is necessary that these students know that studying is much better, funny and interesting than working, as well as less tedious and boring. There are many interesting jobs, but we have our hole life for working, so I think is not good enough to hurry up for this, because in my view point as soon as we start in a job, we are more and more tired. Somebody will think I'm some "cheeky devil", but I'm just saying life is too short to be working most of it.

In conclusion, I feel that obligatory education should be up to 18 years old because is better for their laboral future, their culture and their relationship with the society. I defend that the goverments should atend this theme and study it, in the way of improve the student audience to class. European Perlament plead for that solution, making better and more effectives education sistems, by helping the students and encouraging  them, earesing from their mind the idea of give up the school, creating more atractive careers and subjects, focusing the studies  into practise working or by weaking the cost of this education. I think all these measures are good and important if we want to improve our education and to motivate our young people to continue studying, and is in our hand do it.



