
Nowadays many people in Spain seem to be in favour of abortion, in contrast to another group of people who are against this opinion. Abortion subject is very nearly, controverty and hard to debate, because of such a number of diferent opinions besides of the distance of that viewpoints. Some peolple belive that abortion is not a decision that a person can take on, because they think that if a girl is pregnant, she must to care of her baby and protect it. On the other hand, some people would say that decision must take it the mother, who is the real one who is able to decide.

Catholic Church is very famous establishment which is strongly against abortion. They understand abortion like the murder of the foetus, whatever the method to do it, since the moment of the conception of the pregnancy. This opinion is a religious opinion, of course, that defend "the miracle of the life" and belive in "God Creator". The Church think that every man and woman that defend life and human dignity have to do all they can do to protect ,from a violent deth, such an inocent and defenceless beings like embryos are. Christian people belive in human being dignity, that is they are sons of God, and brothers of Jesus Christ, so they think abortion is a crime against that holy dignity, and they defend that people who is concious of that act and commit it with freedom, should be punished by canonic penalty because they are acepting and carrying out an offence and a sin. These viewpoint seems logical arguments, because abortion is a "natural enemy" of religion, so they can't never walk together .

We can also see intermediate viewpoints for the discussion. Some people are agree with abortion under some circunstances. It seems that if the mother's life is in danger, for example if her life depends of the embryo's life, it's acceptable the death of that being instead of mother's death. A majority of people would defend the abortion in cases of illness, AIDS, or if the mother is subnormal. In these situations it's often said that the mother is not plenty enough of faculties to care of her baby. Another intermediate viewpoint would say that if the mother or the parents have no money for them and for the baby, they can take this decition too. In addition, too many people belive that in cases of rape, that it's not a natural or divine conception, abortion is very normal and they think that women have the right to decide what they want to do with their foetus. However, would have been a radical religous group that would defend life even in this cases, being against abortion. At least, some people think abortion is illegal depending on the age of the foetus and how many weeks of life it have.

On the other hand, there's another viewpoint that is for abortion. First of all, they argue that each woman have the right to create life, so we can choose if we want to have a baby or if don't want to, whatever the situation or the reason of that decision. People who is in this current of opinion, belive that the mother has always the right to decide what she's going to do with her pregnancy because seems to be she's owner of her body and her resposibility. Lot of people think a foetus is not officially a human being until a certain age, because before that age that foetus is not still a human being and we can commit abortion free of guilty or moral punishment. In addition, somebody could the defend abortion focusing their arguments into couple relationship. If a child is an unwanted child because of their parents are going to divorce, for example, it could be unlove or even mistreat. Another consequence of an unwanted child is that he could destroy the relationship of the parents, if one of them don't want to have a baby or if they can't afford the spend that a child produce, so abortion could be a great solution to the people who is for abortion. There are many arguments that defend abortion, for example many people belive that a superpoblation could bring about an strongly drop into our food resources, and we could deth of hungry.

To sum up, we can see that this is another issue in which friction and controversy are always present, and we can see that there are many arguments both defending and comdemning abortion, even we can see intermediate opinions. Some of them deal with the freedom of the woman to choose about if we want to abort or not. On the other hand, we see arguments that deal with the condition of the human being as the children of God, and they aren't owners of the life they carry on them. Finally, there are other arguments that accept abortion only in specific circunstances, but reject it in others. The arguments in favour seems to be more plural, because let that decision to mother. It could be argue that is an individual decision, make it in freedom, but many people would say that's not fair. Whatever the opinion for this issue, we will always have diferent and respectable opinions.





















