
In big cities such as Madrid, traffic problems have attempted to resolve becoming more roads or widening existing ones, but the only thing they get is encouraging private car use.

Seems that the only way to reduce the traffic problem is to reduce the number of vehicles and the size of the same.
For it, apart from the improvements that need our urban transport, there is another interesting alternative, the use of the motorcycle.

Sustainable mobility is the existence of a carrier that allows the satisfaction of the needs of the mobility of all citizens, which will allow traffic and transport in Madrid generate minimal noise and air.  
This will make it easier our daily lives and we can reduce car use when we move by the most congested areas, improve quality of life and we work together in improving the environment of Madrid, helping to meet the goals for reducing the greenhouse effect and achieve more sustainable development.

The main solution given is to build certain points in the city in which any citizen can leave your car and take the same point a bus to conduct a route determined by the city. That same route would be covered by other buses would exit certain other items distributed by the city. That way, any worker could be very close to his house one of these points. The main advantage is the flexibility of buses to leave the user in very different 50points.

To reduce the number of long journeys by car and you must give neighbourhoods with proximity services to the residents and workers, and improving connections with the centres of the city.
This will improve accessibility to services and everyday activities that each usually done.
The car is very useful and is necessary but it can not be used continuously when running through the congested areas. We need to facilitate that in the central areas passage walking and mass transit in a way that reduces the number of cars. We must also facilitate parking garages and residents to be able to leave your car at home and do it safely.

Admittedly, the congestion of cars is only a part of the problems of the mobility of our city, including also:
Low efficiency of the bus involved in the circulatory congestion, which can not serve the city with frequencies and speeds that are meant for, which makes use lower.
Luck of quality of public transport in some areas, lines and timetables insufficient.
The existence of many obstacles and barriers in the streets.
Devaluation of public space in management and urbanization.
And, increasing the distances to access to jobs, schools, shops, etc... that prevent walk, bicycle use, or the use of public transport.

Nowadays, traffic congestion caused in Madrid, inefficiencies in the public transport, air pollution, noise, accidents, difficulty walking, and that the roads and pedestrian crossings are blocked by cars, and for traffic to the second and third rows of illegally parked cars?

Another possible solution and that on occasion they have come to mention is that the days pairs leave the cars have number plate with even and odd days, cars with the number plate odd. I think they do in Rome or at some time have done.


All this will reduce the high number of victims and reduce the scares, angers, tension and discomfort of millions of survivors.

