
Abortion is a topic that has always caused controversy and something that we hear talking about in these days. Elections are coming closer and the two most supported political parties in Spain have different viewpoints of abortion and this is directly reflected in some citizen's way of thinking. In this essay I will show the respective viewpoints of PP and PSOE about the topic of abortion and some other different extreme opinions.

Beginning with Partido Popular, they are not absolutely against abortion. What their electoral programme proposes is to go on with the actual law of abortion, which allows the abortion in some cases: if it's necessary for avoiding a big problem for the pregnant's health, if it's a consequence of a criminal act (for example, rape) or if it's evident that the fetus will be born with serious physical or psychological problems. In these cases, the abortion should be made in the first 12 weeks. So then, they are against the called free abortion. This law is rather convincing, although there are some other cases in which a woman would need to abort and some people could agree that the law should take this into account.

On the other hand, PSOE has proposed making a reform of the actual law of abortion because they believe it's not very realistic. For example, this law doesn't take into account unwanted pregnancies in teenagers, serious economical and social problems, etc. What they want to do is increasing the period of abortion to the first 12 or 14 weeks of gestation and reducing the restrictions to access the interruption of pregnancy.  This will let women have more capacity or freedom to decide what they want to do with their own pregnancy. However, they don't want women to see the abortion as a method of contraception, so they also want to increase the ways of information and prevention, overcoat between teenagers because the majority of women who abort are less than 24. This point seems to make sense because this doesn't mean that they agree with free abortion, these are just some measures to improve the actual woman's situation in relation with this topic, with her body and her capacity of decision. 

However, there are many people completely against abortion. A strong example is the Catholic Church opinion about this, catholic people has a pro-life position. They think that human life, in the form of an ovum and spermatozoon, becomes a human person at the time of conception. Thus, a human pre-embryo, embryo and fetus are all persons entitled to fundamental human rights, including the most basic right: to be allowed to live. This institution has always been against abortion because they argue the right of life is something that just God can decide about and they have always seen pregnancy as the "miracle of life". So they consider abortion a way of murder. This seems to be a very extreme and conservative argument because it denies the woman's power of decision.

So then, summarising, there are lots of points of view about abortion, not only in favour  or against, there are many different nuances that determine one position or another. In this essay we have seen concretely what PP and PSOE think about abortion and what they say they will try to do in the next session; one is more conservative and the other one is more liberal and innovative. Whether you are in favour or against, one important point is the improvement of prevention and information about sexuality because some women see abortion as a contraceptive method and this is a mistake. This will maybe reduce the number of abortion and this, perhaps, will reduce the controversy.



