
Education system in Spain is obligatory until the age of sixteen. Many countries put the limit of obligatory education around fourteen or sixteen too. However, there are many people or institutions that think it would be better to put up this right until the age of eighteen. In fact that's a reality in some education systems. In this essay I intend to argue why, in my opinion, it's not a good idea making education obligatory until eighteen. 

First of all, it would be nice that everybody studied until eighteen, even more, but not everyone wants to. Actually, in Spain, there are lots of unmotivated students even when they are 15 or 16 and people like them should not be obligated to remain at high school even more because, it's a pity, in my opinion, but not everybody wants to study a career or a grade, not everyone has the same motivations. That's why if education was obligatory until 18, high school could be like a jail for some students, so then study and education lose their real value. Education is more real and valuable when the student feels interested about what he does and do this by his own will. Then, does a student who doesn't want to stay at school really learn? I think teaching or learning doesn't make sense when is directed to a person who has decided not to study more.

More years of obligatory education are not a synonym of progress or school success. For example, many people agree that Finnish education system is one of the best in the world. In Finland, obligatory education begins at the age of 6-7 years and ends at 15-16 and 94% of Finnish students finish this period with success and 71% of them go to university. But if we look at the Spanish education system, we could see that obligatory education period is the same as Finland but just 70% of Spanish students finish successfully and only 50% of them go to university. Then, if the years of education are the same, why is there such a difference of results?

The whole Finnish society is an educational society. There, parents, teachers and even exceptional students help to overcome school failure and help unmotivated students to carry on, to get interested about studying, to realise that education is an important concept. That's call co-operative learning. Co-operation means working together to get common objectives. I think that's a very important attitude because sometimes the only thing that we need when we lose motivation for something is somebody to make us see that we can do it. In my opinion, in Spain there is a big lack of interest about all these things and increasing the period of obligatory education would not be a solution.

So then, to summarize, I would say that one of the main problems of the Spanish education system is discouraging of students and lack of interest about learning and, as we have seen, comparing with one of the best education systems, putting obligatory education up to 18 is not the real solution. To solve this problem, I think we need to begin by making some changes in the education system, changes that could make the students learn that education is an important thing in life, motivate students and also teachers, break the idea of boredom... I know that good education is a difficult and subjective concept but, if this method works in Finland, why not in Spain?  







