

Nowadays, one of the most important problems of Madrid is related to traffic. According to a survey carried out by "El Mundo", over 51% of inhabitants of Madrid think that the main disadvantage of living there is traffic problems. The main roads affected by traffic delays are M-30, M-40, A-5 and A-6, and it's produced almost every day. In addition, this problem can be worse if it's raining or if there has been an accident. In this essay I intend to give some solutions that, in my opinion, could reduce traffic problems in Madrid.

It seems to me that one of the most effective solutions would be using public transport instead of our own cars. Firstly, I think that Madrid has excellent public transports, such as city buses, intercity buses, the underground and suburban trains, so we should take advantage of it. Secondly, I personally believe that using them might improve the inhabitants' quality of life, especially in those areas where the traffic is more intense. Finally, I would say that public transport permits the mobility of all social classes and causes less environmental damage than private cars, because it is accessible for everyone and pollutes less than cars. However, it could be argued that public transport is very expensive, especially season tickets. This may be partly true, but I believe that going from "Pinar de Chamartín" to "Valdecarros" paying 1 Euro is not so expensive.

In my view, other possible solution could be to construct a series of "civic nodes" in specific areas of the city in which any citizen can leave his car and take, in the same area, a bus which carries out a fixed route through the city or the outskirts. In this way, buses would have more flexibility than the railway, because they can drop off the user in different points. Moreover, I personally feel that it would be very handy, since the worker could leave his car parked and pick it up round the corner, because they would be provided with parking places. Nevertheless, some people feel that it's not clear where we should locate these nodes. A proposal for this problem would be to expropriate obsolete buildings, plots or even buildings which aren't provided with parking places, which would be replaced by others with parking places assigned to serve as a node. These nodes may also be completed with flats, social clubs or nurseries.

I strongly believe that building bicycle lanes not only in the outskirts, but also in the city centre might be a solution to traffic problems. First of all, riding a bicycle doesn't pollute at all and it's very economic, since it's not necessary to pay anything because each person has his own bike. In addition, if someone can't afford to buy a bike, he can borrow one from the Council. These bikes are usually in different points of the city. This system is used in other Spanish cities, such as Barcelona, where there are about 30.000 cyclists who can enjoy more than 100 km of bicycle lane. Of course, it is possible to argue that riding a bicycle involves a great physical effort and a great risk because it's less safe than riding a car. This seems to be a reasonable point, but, in my opinion, when someone rides a bike, he's doing some exercise and this can help him to be fit. 

So then, in this essay I have suggested some solutions which I believe could reduce the traffic problems in Madrid. These are: using public transport to the detriment of particular cars, constructing dissuasive car parks and extending bicycle lanes through the city. Considering all these points, it seems to me that if we don't try to find good solutions to reduce this problem, the pollution will increase, the quality of life will get worse and we'll waste a lot of time in the traffic jambs.

