Nowadays, abortion is probably one of the most controversial subjects in the society because of its ethic, moral and social involvements. There are two kinds of abortion: spontaneous and induced. Of this, the second one lies in the interruption of the foetus development during the pregnancy, before it's up to 20 weeks. It's considered that 46 millions of women resort to the induced abortion each year to finish with an unwanted pregnancy. According to the OMS, 20 millions of induced abortions happened every year. These days, all the developed countries permit the abortion in fixed circumstances, following the recommendation of the OMS. However, some underdeveloped countries consider it as a serious crime. On the other hand, some countries like Chile, Filipinas, Somalia or The Vatican penalize the abortion without admitting any exception. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the abortion.

To begin with, there are some arguments in favour of abortion. First, it is reasonable to argue that abortion might avoid a risk for the mother's health or life if this risk can't be avoided by other means. Moreover, it seems that abortion would be also practised if the woman has been raped, because she couldn't do anything to avoid the pregnancy and it's probably that she doesn't want to have the baby. Other possible argument is when the baby could be born with serious health problems which might possibly entail his death or difficulties when it comes to live. Some people would argue that the foetus isn't a person and the woman has the right to decide if she continues or finishes her pregnancy. Those people who think like that belong to organizations "For Election" and consider that life is good and we have to preserve it, but they also argue that the quality of life is more important and, therefore, the abortion is, in many cases, "the less bad of the solutions". Countries like Holland, Italy or France have the abortion legalized, and they even practise it gratuitously in public hospitals. However, against these arguments it can be pointed out that there are many handicapped people in the world who are happy living with their limitations.

On the other hand, some arguments against abortion are clearly maintained by the most conservative sectors. First, some people who belong to organizations "For Life" argue that life begins with the conception and they also consider that life is more important than its quality. Moreover, the Church seems to feel that the elimination of the human embryo is a homicide, as the Pope Esteban V declares in his letter "Consuluisti de infantibus". In addition, the Pope Juan Carlos II remembers in "Evangelium Vitae" that those who cooperate with abortion fall into an immediate excommunication. On the other hand, it has been suggested that all human beings are the same as far as their right to live, and the age doesn't confer any priority. It's reasonable to argue that the abortion involves serious risks, some women have emotional and psychological problems immediately after the abortion, other have them many years later: it's the Post Abortion Syndrome. Finally, who can declare that handicapped people don't want to live? One of the most impressive demonstrations against abortion in California was carried out by a group of handicapped under a great poster: "Mum, thanks for not aborting". These arguments might be true, but according to some scientists we can't consider that life begins with the conception, because the embryo doesn't have consciousness and it can't communicate.


Finally, there are some groups composed by many people who feel that modern contraceptive methods and sex education are indispensable to reduce abortion. They 
also maintain that abortion can be accepted in extreme circumstances. Moreover, they agree with the value and dignity of human's life, but they disagree with the moment in which life develops. However, the world tendency is aiming at the abortion legality in extreme cases, such as foetus malformations, risk of death in the woman, rape or incest. There's still controversy with respect to the abortion legality in other circumstances.

In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments both in favour and against abortion. Some of them deal with the woman freedom to continue with the pregnancy or abort, and others with extreme cases: rape, risk of death and malformations. On the other hand, there are arguments related to the moment in which life starts, the effects of abortion or the primacy of life over its quality. Considering all these points, it might be logical for the Governments of each country to find some solutions to reduce abortion, especially backstreet abortions, which involve a great risk for the woman's health.


