
Traffic problems represent an important concern in Madrid city and for this reason, nowadays is a big topic to argue. Some opinions point that some traffic problems are caused by the increase of people living in the city, the high level of utilization of vehicles to transport merchandises and constant use that people make to do trips. As a result of this, accidents,congestion, deterioration and pollution of the city are observed. In this essay, I will suggest possible solutions that I personally feel may help us to solve some traffic problems in Madrid.

Firstly, speaking personally, I believe that a solution could be make more difficult the access to obtain the Driving Licence, this is, establish a high level in examinations in order to force to improve the way of driving of some people and do not allow to drive those who can cause problems in traffic daily. Of course, it could be argue that this position is against the democratic access to Driving Licence; against the free option to decide having a car and driving, so is not good for individual freedom present in our occidental societies. However, it is not easy to balance the democracy with the individual freedom. Nowadays, our country is full of inhabitants and city of Madrid  can not cover with its means all of them. Therefore it is a need to put constraints to certain elements of the society. In this case, it is mandatory to establish a control in the access to the licence and the car bussiness if we want to improve the daily life.

Some people feel that another solution could be make pedestrian some streets of the centre of Madrid. This may be partly a good answer, but I would argue that this fact, in my own view, will not reduce significatively the abundant traffic in the centre because drivers will look for others streets where to go by, so I think it would be better restrict to private cars the access to the centre. As Juan Sanchéz from Professional Federation Taxi suggest, it is something strongly necessary since it is very difficult to circulate with the actual chaos and soon or later the reduction of cars will be indispensable.

Finally, for my part, I would say that a good solution would be reinforce the Public Transport by lengthening routes of trains in the underground, adding more trains and busses at rush-hours, and reducing the prices of tickets. However, some drivers mantain that private car is much more comfortable than a public train or a bus and it give them more independence and freedom when the time come to decide schedules and places. On the one hand they are right, but I personally think that a private car is more expensive specially these days because of the high number of cars that force to use parkings, besides most of these parkings have schedules to carry out. Therefore, could be said that if some impovements are made in Public Transport, it would be one of the best proposal to reduce some traffic problems.

To conclude, I believe that it is very hard to carry out all these solutions,this is: demanding and training better drivers, making easier the access to pedestrians to streets of the centre and banning the private cars to these and making  Public Transport more confortable and that way end up with all traffic problems in Madrid. But we should promote new ideas and options like working from house, for example, and to be aware of the problem because unless we make something as quickly as possible, the Madrid city will become very uncomfortable and will turn in a totally chaotic place.
