Nowadays the issue of abortion is very debated and is being commented and analyzed a lot. Discovers and advances in techniques of medicine allow people to choice in a large field of possibilities about his or her health. But in case of women also can be observed the option that is given to them in some countries of deciding about going on with her pregnancy or interrupting it. So, in this essay I will try to discuss some of the viewpoints about abortion.

Firstly, there are several arguments in favour of abortion. Some people would argue that each woman should have the right to decide about the life of the embryo that she and her couple have created. Fernando Savater, a well-known spanish writer and philosopher, feels that it is worse giving birth a child who is not desired and keeping him or her in bad conditions than avoiding that his or her life is a tragedy, through abortion. This argument seems to make sense, because quality of life is very important. Another possible argu-ment is that the embryo or fetus has no a whole conciousness, therefore the embryo or fetus would not suffer in the fact of abortion. This point is rather convincing, although really we don't know exactly what level of conciousness has a fetus.

Also,  arguments against abortion can be observed. It has been suggested that the human life begins in the moment of the conception. The Pro-Vida organization, whose members are from Catholic Church mantains that abortion is an immoral act and a way of killing human lifes who can't defend themselves, and also they defend the rights and protection of each life. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness. Another viewpoint against, is that the abortion can cause secundary effects on mothers like greater tendency to be sterile and  psychological and emocional changes. This could be considered a realistic perspective, since some research reinforce it.

There are those who point out that the abortion is right or wrong dependig on circumstan-ces. For example, in a case of rape, the general feeling is that that mother has the right of aborting, therefore in this case abortion would be right. However if the cause of aborta-tion is that the mother and father have not paid attention in the use of contraceptive methods, some might argue that abortion would be wrong. Another possible  viewpoint is that a very young girl should have the possibility of interrupting the pregnancy since she is very young and it is very possible that she can't provide the child a right care or a good conditions of life. Also, it is widely accepted that if a pregnant woman has a lot of difficulties with the pregnancy and her life is in danger, it is preferable to practice an abortion. This seems a logical argument, because everybody feels that the life of the mother has more value because she is a formed being already. Finally, Church might point out that fetus with deficiencies or severe health problems should  have the opportu-nity of living too, because they are not less valid than the healthy ones.

To sump up, as we have seen there are many arguments in favour and against abortion, and others more flexibles that adjust  to different circumstances. The first ones defend the freedom of women to choose about the life of their child and others defend the right to life of every living being. Others arguments accept or reject abortion according to situations. But, it could be considered a realistic perspectives, those that are nearer to agree with abortion because nowadays people is mainly agnostic and they act depending on their principles which disagree currently with Church ones which reject abortion. Therefore, it is also reasonable that the number of abortion has increased and people preffer to make decisions according to their moral principles.
