
   Nowadays, in a lot of countries around the world the abortion is permmited and many people aprove it. Abortion consists in the death of the foetus, that may be deliberated o not. Many women suffer a natural abortion caused by genetic deficiencies like malformations in the baby, similar antecedents in the woman's family, and so on, although it usually happens because of the advanced age of the woman. But this is not the ussual case of abortion in most of the women. Some of them decide their abortions for different reasons. They could feel that is not probably to maintain a child, because they are too young or they do not have money. In this essay, I am going to show different perspectives about the subject of abortion.    
   First, almost the middle of the countries around the world have a law that approves the abortion without the necesity of have a good reason to do this. In a lot of countries like Canada, Cuba, China, United States, Hungary or France, the abortion is permitted. There are laws that permit it although the woman does not have any problem to maintain a child or any problems with her pregnancy. But the pregnancy also may be caused because the contraceptives are not good or fails. So, it seems to be logical in the sense that several people do not have the fault of the contraceptive's fails, but also ilogical because if people were more cautious with what they do, they probably could not have to kill a baby without necesity.
   Next, there are other countries that have a law that approves the abortion only in any cases. A good example of this, is Spain. In Spain the abortion is permitted depending on how is the pregnancy of the woman. If the woman have problems with her pregnancy and it is in danger because of her baby, she might abort. She could do it if the baby have deficiencies too. However, women that are pregnant and want to abort without having problems, cannot do it. On the other hand, there are many women that are victims of a rape and do not want the baby, but they cannot abort. This argument apperars to be unfair in situations like this, because is not something porvoked by the woman.
   Nevertheless, there are few countries that have a law that never permits the abortion. Two of them are Chile and El Salvador. In these countries the abortion is considered a crime. The woman that wants to abort and the man that has contributed in the pregnancy, are punished if they are discovered. It appears to be too limited for the people. In spite of that, there are institutions like the church, that are agree with this prohibition. The church believes that abortions are never acceptable. Priests could say that it is better to let the woman and foetus die rather than save the woman's life by terminating the pregnancy. This seems to be an unreasonable argument, because possibly is better to save the woman's life and do not permit her and her baby's death.
   So then, there are many arguments concerning the abortion. The main argument in favour is the legal abortion, that permits to finish with the pregnancies that a lot of women have because of the antriconceptive's fails. The next point is the permission of the abortion when the pregnancy is problematic, to save the woman's life because the pregnancy could affect her health. But also, the permission of the abortion because of the anguish that suffer the women that have been raped. The last is the absolutely prohibition of the abortion, that many people see like a murder. But this is not present in the mayority of the countries of all the world. 
