
   Nowadays, in Spain the obligatory education is up 16 years. Years ago, the obligatory education was until 14 years. Most of people had to work to get some money for their families, because not everbody had enough money to pay their children a degree in the university. But now, there are a lot of options to choose that do not involve high costs. For example, there are courses of different things that permit people who do not want to study a degree to continue with more studies. Besides, they may start these courses without "bachillerato". So in this essay I intend to argue that obligatory education should not be up to 18 years. 
   First, I think that some students in schools or high schools are not interested at studying. Because of that I believe that they should finish their studies before, so they will not waste their time if they do not want to still studying. On the other hand, there are some students who defend the obligatory education until 18 years, because it increases their knowledge and it is a good opotunity to improve their future. But as I see it, students adquire fundamental knowledge when they are 16 years old, so it is not necessary to extend the obligatory education two more years. 
   Second, I think that the planning of studies could damages people who want to study if it is the same to everybody. An example of this is that marks of good students in some high schools are sometimes reduced because of the influences of bad students. However, most of people insist on the fact that everybody must receive classes until 18 years, because they think that the obligatory education is too short if it finishes when students are 16 years old. But from my point of view everybody must choose if they have to continue studying or not after the E.S.O. So, I believe that they do not have the obligation of continue with something that they do not want to do. 
   Another point is that, in my view, we have to respect people who decide to start working when they are 16 years old. I think that this is good, because some people prefer working instead of studying. But it is possible to argue that a lot of students take this decision very fast, and they must study more years and think about it a bit more, because perhaps when they are 16 years old, are too young to decide about such a thing yet. Nevertheless, I think that people must study until 16 years to have fundamental knowledges, but not necessary until 18 years, because although there are persons that change and decide to study later, others prefer to work and do not disturb people that want to study more. 
   Next, we can find people who do not want to continue their studies in high school, but goes to a different institute to do couses of "Formación Profesional" when they are 16 years old. This is very interesting, because in some of the cases, the person who has studied FP has a better work in the future that the person who has a degree. However, some people feel that have a degree is essential to get a good work. But as I see it you will have a lot of opportunities to find a good work although you do not choose to study a degree.
   So then, I have given several reasons why I think that it is not necessary to have obligatory studies until 18 years: we have to respect people who do not want to study after 16 perventing problems caused by bad students; do not change the planning of studies because it is something that could afects people who want to study more; permit the sudents to start working with 16 years old, when they have already learnt fundamental knowledges; and show them other possibilities of study like FP. I would suggest that we should not do anything to change this law in Spain and I recommend people to study because in my view it is very important for us.
