
Abortion has always been one of the most discussed topics for ages. In addition, it is still present in our society bescause it is a very controversial subject. Abortion is the interruption of the pregnancy for natural or provoked reasons and it eventually constitute a crime. The argument comes not when the abortion is for natural reasons but when the woman wants to abort. In Spain according to the article 417 bis, the abortion is prohibited except when the pregnant woman is in danger, the pregnancy is a consequence of a rape or a criminal act or the fetus could have serious problems. Because of that people has many differents opinions or viewpoints about abortion, if it is correct or not and, in this essay, I will discuss and analyze them.

There are few the matters that have created so many controversy as the abortion. Two groups have been created. On the one hand there are Pro-life groups, which are those that are in opposition to abortion and their permission. Inside these groups there are people who are in disagreement not only with abortion but with all kinds of contraceptive methods which are not natural methods. They think in addition, that life begins with the conception, and life itself is more important than the quality of life, and consider that the foetus is a person because in 18 days he has blood and his heart is beating. These groups urge all the pertinent goverments and the non-govermental organizations to increase their commitment with the health of the woman, to dealing with the effects that abortions have in the health when they are realized in inadequate conditions as an important problem of public health. This point is rather convincing, although, it has not  considered the circumstances of the pregnanzy and what could be the future of this foetus, because maybe it is not appropiate or not  comply with a praiseworthy kind of life.

On the other hand there are groups than are in favour of abortion. Those are Pro-Election groups, which think that the foetus is not a person and the woman has the right of controlling her body so, she can decide if her pregnanzy continues or not. It seems to them that it is not clear when the life begins so goverment do not have to pass laws and let the woman decide what she wants to do with her body and all which happen inside it. People who belongs to these organizations argue that abortion penalizations commit against human rights of women. They think, in contrast to Pro-life groups, that quality of life is more important than life itself , therefore, abortion is in many circumstances "the least bad decision". Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has a certain weakness, maybe the woman do not know what is better for her health, because abortion, in the end, is something serious, a big step that has consequences, and bodies could be damaged. 

At last, between both previous groups, exist another intermedial groups componed by people who agree in some things like modern contraceptive methods, or sex education, because these are essential to bring down the abortion or in the value and the dignity of the human life; but they do not agree in the moment in which the life begins, if the mother's life is in danger or she is ill, if maybe the baby will not be accepted by the family or things like that, but not others. Some of the evidence shows that it depends on the case, because the foetus could have malformations or maybe the pregnanzy is consequence of a rape. Nevertheless the world's trend is orientated towards the authorization of the abortion in extreme, such this cases as malformations of the fetous, danger of death to the mother, violation or incest as it had been said before. This could be considered a realistic perspective of this topic, since this viewpoint is not radical and has in mind  some circunstances and some consequences that other groups do not have.

To sum up, in conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments that acept or  reject the abortion. Some of them acept it because fell that the type of life that the mother could live (better or worse) is more important than the foetus' life even if it has not born. Another reject abortion because think that life is always life since the conception, but probably the most reasonable argument is the interval because it has in mind the characteristics of the case, looks all the possible points of view and leaves freedom but without going too far.



