


Nowadays, increasingly, most of citizens suffer from traffic problems. An issue revealed thatin a city like Madrid in the last years the use of the private vehicle has increased  and is now around 50'7%. In Madrid, every working day there are 14'5 million trips, of them, 10 million -68'9%- are by car or other kind of transport. The effect that this action has is that every morning the residents of Madrid have many problems to get to their jobs, the main problems they have are going into centre of city, parking and, above all, traffic jams. In this essay, I will suggest some possible solutions that, I believe, could avoid some of  these problems to people. 

First of all, for my part, I feel that traffic in centre of cities should be limited only for people whose job is closely related to transport, like truck drivers, taxi drivers, messengers, haulage contractors or people who really needs. On the other hand the difficulty of that would be in determinate who really needs a transport to work. However, in my view, this would be easy because drivers only have to prove  by documents that their transport is essential for them. This documents could be like a license signed by the company or something like that.

Secondly, speaking personally, another possible solution for traffic problems  would be paying for parking, I mean, put more areas where the drivers must pay if they want park their cars there. A possible argue of that could be that the residents or their family had to pay too. Nevertheless, I would suggest that this isn't a real problem because this problem, it seems to me that, it would be solved if city council gave them a document that proved they lived in this street. Thus only people who really need to park there could done it.

Finally, a possible solution for traffic jams could be to encourage people to use the public transport. This could be, in my view, a good solution because, thus, there could be less cars in the road and traffic would be free-flowing. It could be argued that, for example, buses maybe don't get some places or it takes too much time to get there, for that, many people uses their cars a lot, because they can go wherever they want at any time, but, I strongly believe than if people used less their cars there wouldn't be so much traffic and buses, in this case, would be faster than now. 

To sum up, as I have said in this essay, in my opinion, there would be three main solutions for three main traffic problems in Madrid: going into centre of city, parking and traffic jams, there would be three main solutions: limiting the entrance to centre of city to people who really need, paying for parking and use more public transport. I personally feel that if people did something like that traffic problems, from my point of view, would bring down a bit.

