      Abortion is the <Q> <R>. It's the second case which comes relevant for a thorough analysis in our present society. Focusing on it, we come across with the position of the Catholic Church, labelling it as 'an abominable murder'. Although this is agreed by many others  -  usually tagged as pro-life fighters  -  there is also a large number of people  -  whose denomination is pro-choice  -  that go for the parents to freely decide to give, or not, birth to the nasciturus  -  potential baby, still a foetus. So then, the controversy is open and it is so because both of these ideas rest on acceptable Human Right. In addition, there are mid-points, common people who do not share any of these points of view. Most of the developed countries provide for abortion by legalizing it for very concrete cases, and so does the Spanish Law. In this paper I will provide the reader with different viewpoints about the provoked abortion by covering three main aspects: moral and health involvements, and political treatments.
      First of all, morality appears to be the origin of every matter around abortion and the main obstacle to deal with in the chase for any agreement. On the one hand, those who defend the right for everyone to have, or not, their own baby are supported by the fact that it was their own free decision to conceive it, and so they should also have the right not to give birth to any child. This seems quite a reasonable point although, on the opposite, those who would deny this right appeal to a basic law which asserts that no one is allowed to kill any other, not being in his own defence. This is the position defended by the Spanish Church Conference which condemns every case of abortion as a sin. So far, it might appear that every perspective comes easily sided, but actually, the majority of the population, as many polls have revealed, tend not to have such radical opinions about; indeed the results of a poll carried out in Madrid by the Institute for Family Policy (March 2006) illustrate a steep ignorance over the real magnitude of this issue. Even though, there is a common characteristic in the mass opinion and this is the dependency on particular circumstances to decide over the abortion usefulness; most of them tend to understand its necessity in serious circumstances, such as the rape or the very risk for the mother to die, or even the conscious pregnancy of girls under 13  -  case determined by a logical incapacity to face such a responsibility, in addition to the risk for their non-prepared body. Much fewer are those who defend its free choice in every case, looking at it as a way to keep a balance in the demographic development    -  on the account of innocent lives, every pro-life would answer. Those against the right to abort also look at the pregnant woman.
      And this will be the central point in this paragraph, as when judging and deciding over the aspects involved by abortion, her security comes as an essential point. Because of this, the fact that many women die in the very process is often used as a stick to beat those who defend this right. In spite of this irrefutable evidence, yet many pro-choice groups counterattack by arguing that most of these deaths take place in a large number of clandestine abortionist clinics. So then, they look at legalising this activity as the only way to put an end to such hazardous businesses. Going on, once the abortion has taken place the question hangs over the effects on her: is she likely to recover successfully both in the physical and in the psychic respect? The first part usually gets clear within a few days  -  if she does not fall ill, so good. On the opposite, the psychic aspect is not so clear. In fact, a retrospective study, 5 years long, carried out over two Canadian regions pointed out that 25% of the women who had aborted would visit a psychiatrist, compared to the 3% who, not having had any abortion, did too. Even then, proved bad effects on the woman, many people wonder if we - or either the State  -  are supposed to regulate our partners' wishes, even looking for them.
      And finally, here is where the legal debate originates. There are a number of variables usually considered in regulations over this issue; none of them is treated in the same way in every country but all seem to create controversy. The generally most liberal countries in the Western world  -  Holland, Sweden, Denmark, or even the United States  -  do accept the abortion with the only condition for the mother to agree with its attainment, whereas there are several areas in the developing world where no case is accepted  -  Chile, Guatemala, Afghanistan, or Micronesia  -  where, even if conceived in a rape, the mother shall give birth to the baby. The reality nowadays is that the majority of the countries in the world tend to side between these extremes and so, they recognize the right to decide over your own pregnancy only in special circumstances. Such is the situation of Spain, where abortion is allowed just on three specified assumptions, each treating a different perspective. The therapeutic one refers to any case where doctors find out a risk for the pregnant woman's life. In those cases, the common protocol is always to fight for her life, leaving the baby's one aside. In this context, many of those who call themselves 'pro-life' argue that 'new breath is the first', and so the baby should be put before its mother since, in addition, we even have no guarantee for her to survive by killing the foetus. This belief comes nowadays as a backward movement in our historical evolution, as doesn't value the importance of a person who does exist already, whereas her baby is not so yet, and has no civil identity. Second comes the eugenic perspective which takes care of situations in which the baby is predicted to suffer from serious health problems in the future. Pro-life defenders argue that killing a baby because of its imperfections is a complete cruelty. Beyond walks a private organism, Foro Arbil, that considers those Governments supporting any pro-abortion Act as the biggest genocide in our History. In this context, many common people, being subject to street polls, show their disapproval at such intromissions in the national politics. It seems remarkable that they, either being in favour or against the legalisation, usually get astonished when reported about the legality of the next-day pill; then they comment the hypocrisy of such an ambiguity.
To conclude, we have looked at a huge variety of opinions over abortion  -  this is, the provoked practice  - , an issue that seems so sensible and controversial. They all walk in different ways but some of them  -  pro-life and pro-choice ones  -  seem to end in a common street which diverges into two opposite aims: the one is to persuade people either people or authorities to support the recognition of abortion as a Right, and the other one is to make them aware of the necessity to ban it. In the chase of these objectives several organisations and particular individuals do not hesitate to show publicly their own opinion, even arguing against the regent legislation. An extra point appears important to be mentioned: versus such a spread belief, those countries with legal abortion don't register more abortions but fewer than those banning it. This seems to be due to the development in social education there, and also to a higher accessibility to methods of contraception. So then, taking care of the stir, and overall of the traumas caused almost by every abortion, it may be worth reconsidering our position on this problem, always going for the social welfare.
      
      












