    
    Education seems to be quite a relevant subject in our developed societies but so it was in the ancient times, when Socrates (V Century B.C.) would walk the streets in Athens with his young learners or later, three centuries ago, when the English writer and politician Joseph Addison asserted that <Q>. Nowadays there are often conferences such as the one organized by the UNESCO in Beijing (China) in the year 2001, where lots of experts from the member countries met to redefine Secondary Education objectives and functions for the XXIst Century. In Spain this last part  - still obligatory- used to end by the time youths were 14 or 15 years old, until in 1990 the Socialist Government in the power at that time- PSOE- introduced a new education reform, the LOGSE, extending this period up to 16 years. The current debate in many developed countries focuses on the need  - or not- to extend the period for even longer- up to 18 years. Inside the Spanish policy, the third group most voted, Izquierda Unida, has already fixed this extension as a reform to carry out inside its platform. Anyway, this step is not likely to be taken because of the strong voters division between the two main parties, PSOE and PP. In this essay I am going to defend the need of two more years in the obligatory education by pointing out some benefits that I think the reform would contribute; they cover three major layers in our existence: personal, social and national.
    To begin, I will focus on the individual aspect which is, in my view, the basis of every matter concerning superior layers. On the one hand, it appears to me that the personal effort can be very beneficial to increase one's self-esteem and willpower, which are vitally important for anyone to develop in such a competitive society. On the other hand, I can see a very consequence of this which is the success in finding a good job  - not easy at all nowadays- and later in carrying it out. Later studies, either the professional training (FP) or the pre-university ones (Bachillerato), appear to be utterly rewarding, indeed several statistics remark that fact although pointing out that, for instance, two boys aged the same in the same area might both be hired. As far as now some people would label the education after the 'obligatory line' as a waste of time and money. However, the satisfactions and, overall, the mental maturity the schooled youth has got is nowhere like the boy's who spent his time working for an unjust salary; in fact, the difference would also arise in terms of salary, flexibility about working hours and possibility to promote, all of which place the educated boy in a vantage position.
    It is right in the employment respect where both society and nation get involved. The first one is the addition of every member's feelings inside the community and therefore acts as a vicious circle, making each one tend to feel like the mass. Because of this I strongly believe that we should go for broke in training everyone for a well-spread job in which they shall feel comfortable. Many psychologists report about their professional experiences and assert that people's daily mood seems to depend at 70% upon their job state. Of course there could be voices pointing out that this might happen either to graduates or to basic-schooled workers, yet I would defend the idea that the more education the smaller possibility of being exploited. So, personally speaking, in a society full of satisfied worker people and much fewer frustrated ones, the general feeling would lead to a future much more promising than it looks now with such a job insecurity from which lots of entrepreneurs get profit.
    Finally there is the national matter, which appeals to some statistical rates such as the growth or the unemployment ones. In a recent study carried out by the UNESCO, Spain appears as one of the queue countries in the investment on education and so is it in the one over the academic results, evaluated by the PISA report. For my part I maintain that an increase in the obligatory education period would provide the country with a chance to recover the excellent education state where it used to be and that would help it catch up with economic levels in countries like Switzerland, Finland and the United States. Even though it is true that there are examples of countries getting excellent academic results  - such as South Korea or Japan- which are not economically well placed, and so could happen to us, I would argue that the main aim should be for the nation to get a bit more of self-confidence  - which lacks nowadays- by improving little by little its academic teaching system in every aspect; that way the worker population would improve their performance and consequently the country would become stronger at the foreign sight, which shall imply, just to illustrate, an increase in the external investment and in the incoming tourism.
    In conclusion, we have seen that by lengthening the obligatory education period  - just up to 18 years- we would provide every student with such a superior maturity, the society itself would be much more satisfied and the nation position inside international classifications would improve, which might involve an increase in the internal production. Inasmuch as the circumstances change over time, so shall we have to alter our way of dealing with the needs around us. This is why I think that the only possibility of improving our society in every respect is for us the common people to persuade the superior authorities to do their best for renewing the education system that shall assure the success of subsequent generations in our society. Provided that it is only in educational establishments where the training for any worth having job takes place, I usually ask myself if education is valued enough in our society or we are just leaving it up to our politicians.
    
    
 

 












