Gay marriage has been a very polemical issue in recent times. It produced a kind of "war" between the different political sides, having lots of discrepancies and arguments. Also the Church and the believers judge this as an "immoral act", and something that goes against their points of view. In this essay I will discuss different  points of view about marriage between people of the same gender.
To begin with, there are many people in favour of marriage between people of the same gender. Many of them give back up the idea of gay marriage because they have relatives who are gay, so, the situation is very close to them. It is known that to some of them it is really difficult to understand their relative's sexual condition, but making an effort they become more tolerant and back up them. The problem with this argument is that some people can not accept that sexual condition, and set at a distance or, in some cases, they stop talking to their relatives.
Most of the arguments that we can see against gay marriage are maintained mostly by religious people but also by some politicians. By their condition of being religious, they say that marriage between people of the same gender can not be tolerated, because, first of all, gay marriage is against the principles of the Bible, and, second, if the couple want to adopt a child, it can create a kind of  deranged on his growth. This argument seems difficult to deny because in one hand, religious people have their own beliefs so we can not change people's mind, but in the other hand, the idea of adopting and having two parents of the same gender, should not entail the children a deranged on their growth, because they will also rise up him like another couple formed by two people of different gender, or also like just one parent can do.
There are also other arguments against marriage between people of the same gender. We can see lots of examples like: people who give their opinion just to give it and without knowing the issue, people who think that being gay is a kind of disease that should be eradicate and others who can not accept the way of having a son who is gay. These arguments could be considered as a big case of illiberal because this kind of people whose profile always is  related with  unknowing what are they talking about, seems to think that homosexual people have a strange disease that can be infectious, and that's the reason why they can not understand them (in some cases we can also see that this people don't have any intention to do it).
In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments that defend and condemn marriage between people of the same gender. Many of them are against the idea of freedom, I mean, people is not free to choose their sexual condition. People who are against this kind of marriage should try to be more tolerant, and leave the other people the freedom of choosing what they want, because this people does not do anything bad to them (sadly homosexuality seems to be a bad thing and also it is censored in some countries). But also we can see arguments in favour which seem to be more reasonable and tolerant with the rights and the freedom of choosing of people. Also homosexual people defend themselves justifying their rights as a person, trying to have their own space in the society, and trying not to be treated like scum or sick people.



