 For many years, students had been suffering lots of problems. This is not a new issue, all students  (it doesn't matter which age they have) have had problems. The reasons of some problems are that  they don't have the motivation they need, also being a teenager is very difficult because of the new  stage of the life, and so on. In this essay I will try to argue some of the problems that students  suffer, and also I will suggest some possible solutions that could help students to try to evade their  problems. First of all, one of the most important problems is the motivation. Students have to make the choice  of what are they going to study at a very early age. This is a problem because when some of them  go to a higher level of the course, they see that they don't like what they are studying, and because  of this, they get depressed and they start to leave their studies. One possible and effective solution  could be to make the choice later, so the student may know which things are better for him. Other  interesting problem is that sometimes, students don't feel good with a signature, because of the  teacher. Some teachers do not work well the issue of making their signatures interesting for the  students. To solve this, they just could make their signatures more attractive not doing the same all  the time, for instance, changing the rutine one day of the week. Another problem is the abuse that  some students receive from other students. The profile of the student who suffer is most of the time  the same, I mean, is the one who always studies and the one who is very shy; this makes him  vulnerable to the other students who want to use him. The possible solution to this problem, which is the main problem that I'm trying to argue, is trying to  make the parents of this students to educate their kids in a better way. Also the teacher have to  take part in this, trying to help the students who suffer the abuse of the violent ones. We can also  see some drug problems asociated with students, I mean, the percentage of students that consume  drugs is increasing, because nowadays, it's very easy to bring drugs at school. A possible solution to this important problem it's to give more information to the students. However,  if giving information is not very effective, parents, who have a very big influence upon their kids  should try to speak with them. Also, most of the students react when they see real cases of the  results of drugs, I mean, if when the schools are giving information they bring a person who could  go out of the problem and explains them what does the drugs did to him, could be better to notice  them how bad is to consume drugs, and it could help to make them to be more awared of this. To conclude, we can see that students have to afford many problems, and some of them have a  very difficult solution.To solve many of them is not very easy, because as the deficiencies of the  education in school increase we have nothing to do, I mean, since the laws don't stop changing all  the time there would not be effective solutions to some sufferings like the ones I've mentioned. But  we don't have to abandon it, and we should keep on trying to find as many solutions as we can, to  help the students to have a better and easier way to study.   
