
Abortion has been one of the most controversial problems in recent decades. The safeties guarantees in relation to this medical intervention gives to people the possibility of removing or expulsing an embryo from the uterus during human pregnancy for therapeutic or elective reasons. The legal and moral implications and aspects of abortion are subject to intense social debate in many parts of the world. However, this change is not always suitabled by all members who compose the world's society, since there are some people who consider the opportunities offered by this arguable action as something significance to debate. In this essay I will try to discuss with a variety of viewpoints the ethics and not precises of abortion.


To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of the statement. Many people believe that the right to abortion should be part of a portfolio of pregnancy rights that enables women to make a truly free choice whether to end a pregnancy. According to National Abortion Campaign, women will not be able to take a full and equal part in the society when all the rest can decide for themselves whether and when to have children. As this organisation claims, the decision to terminate pregnancy is so important that it can only be made by the person most envolved: the women. The general view about this topic states the basic right of women to control their own fertility, since it is estimated as a fundamental human right. One of the main points supported by doctors today, under their scientific point of view is the following: A not wished pregnancy could generate serious and important psychological and physical problems on the affected person. All these arguments are quite convincing, although in some countries, such as Spain, from the promulgation of the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy in 1985 by 'La ley orgánica del Código Penal', many people claim that abortion's law carries out ambiguous beefs to practice it. 

Some arguments against abortion are maintained, mostly by religious people. Catholic Truth Society greatly oppose abortion because of the nexts reasons: the conception of baby is due to will of God and a human being has no right to kill that baby, it is ethically unacceptable and morally wrong. Another viewpoint against abortion is that what has actually happened in nowadays' society is that clever disagreements have convinced those without definited principles, that merciless slaughter of unborn babies is morally justifiable, essential for the happiness of the individual and even good for the society. It could also be supported that the difficulty really is for the doctors, they have to accept the psychologically responsibility in their human minds and ideals. The problem with this argument is that although abortion isn't forbidden in special vulnerable situations, banning abortion puts women at risk by forcing them to use illegal abortionists. For that reason, it is reasonable to claim that legalization would substitude "unsafe" for safe and it could even save many women's lifes.
There are others points regarding abortion, which depend on the degree of motives used to fight for this surgical operation. It could be argued that people who want to practice an abortion because of the following inferences: rapes, incests, physical damages in the fetus (malformations) or danger to the pregnant individual's physical or psychological health, considere it as a solution's method. It is apparently true that in these unforeseen circumstances abortion shouldn't be normally illegal. Others might feel that some of the exposed causes are not effective moderations for abortion to be accepted, since in some real situations in spite of a malformation the baby could have a complete life. It seems to be a powerful argument against the uncontrolled and wrong use of abortion. Another point pro-abortion is the second fortuitous in life and future opportunities a pregnant teenager could have. Pro-choice women's rights activists do not take a casual or callous attitude to the foetus. This point is rather convincing, because it reminds society that a woman would be regarded as a person and not just as a container for the foetus. Nevertheless, in contrast to these judgments some people might claim that we shouldn't therefore give great considerations to women rights and needs as well as those of the unborn. All these arguments are reasonable, however it seems to be impossible delimiting the postures in which abortion should be practiced or not.							 
                                                                                                                                      To sum up, we can see that abortion is another issue in which defending and condemning arguments are present in many different viewpoints. There are some of them that acknowledge the freedom of women's right, others focused in the practice with wrong ethics values and those that consider it as an illegally way to finish with a future potencial human being. One reasonable prediction is that, due to all alterations were changed in abortion's law or an ethical code was established in all world's countries, the discussion about this doubtful and polemical topic would continue in the next century.









