
Education has always been considered important, as one of the main solutions to facilite and improve the realisation of self-potencial and latent talents of an human being. Through history, education has encompassed teaching and learning specific skills, and also something less tangible but more profound: the imparting of knowledge, positive judgment and well-developed wisdom. In addition, education has had as one of its fundamental aspects stimulating the process of thought's structure, of the creative imagination, the forms of personal expression and of verbal and graphical communication.
However, in this century the number of students actively following a higher academic formation has decreased, particularly in our country: Spain. In this essay I intend to consider some of the reasons why obligatory education should be up to 18 years.


Nowadays in Spain, from the promulgation of the LOGSE in 1990 by 'La ley orgánica de Calidad de la Educación' the obligatory education consists of two stages: Primary education and Secondary Obligatory education. These stages correspond to the ages between 6 and 16 years. It appears to my personal opinion that the resolution is completely inadequate for the next reason. Students are not mature for this exact age, since to be a mature person is necessary that an individual develops the responsibility faculty about his own life, as well as the person must respond to the circumstances in an appropriate manner. Of course, it could be argued that education is not "free" in any way, since all the working and productive citizens pay it through financial charges called taxes. Nevertheless, I strongly believe young teenagers are very curious and impulsive to decide the future by themselves before they are emotionally prepared.

It is sometimes argued that a student who is 16 years old can to leave the high school without having ended the ESO, because of the repetitions of the same grade year after year. In addition, some people against the law claim that obligatory education only retains indoor classrooms teens without interest on a higher academic formation. For that reason, they feel this type of young students should already be working. However, although it may be partly true since the act intentionally used by bad students causing harm to others through different kind of methods could have a huge decrease. I tend to believe in a correct and positive scholarly orientation towards non-traditional education or education alternative designed for students with special needs. Thanks to this second opportunity, the educational system would be up to 18 years getting levels of qualified people increased considerably. Thus, in all ikelihood some of these students would search and find better jobs more easily.

One of the most important problems faced by this society, in my view, is crime. According to psychologists specialised in problematic youngest who commite crimes, robberies, violence... this phenomenon appears to be linked to the huge school abandon. In my opinion this reason is also another not harmful aspect to be up obligatory education. Personally speaking, I think that youngest crime relationated to the topic of education is committed by several reasons: First, one of the causes of the abandon is connected to problem of population migration. Second, this kind of ex-students' behaviour is caused by a contrast with our extremely crude world. And finally, to lead teenagers working in our present society without an employment qualifications is a not correct decision, since it will provoque something went wrong. Of course, it could be argued that the obligatory education puts anyway ideological doctrination in hands of Government, which could have unknown specific intentions in doing this purpose. However, It seems to me that teens' crime, who abandon school, is a clearly way of example they are not prepared to human societies which are often organized according to their primary means of subsistence.

According to a new report: ' Education at to Glance 2006 ' elaborated by the OCDE (Organization for the Cooperation and the Economic Development), 30% of Spanish students do not finish the obligatory education. The problem of the school abandon is specially pressing in Spain, since it has an average rate of 30 % that duplicates the European average (15,3 %). Currently, the situation about school abandon in Spain is one of the highest of Europe. Furthermore, it goes from bad to worse. In my opinion, obligatory education should be up to 18 years because it continues being another unsolved problem in our society. Some people, however, feel that there is no solution to this, since Spain is considered a country with strategies and plans not enough efficient which depend on Governments' decisions about extra-budget financing sources of educational system.
This may be explained by the successfully practised in others countries, such as Holand, Germany, Belgium... with high levels in education. 


To sum up, it is clear from my point of view that to be up to 18 years obligatory education is completely necessary, since it is one of the most serious causes all society is worried about. Furthermore, education is one of the most important human rights that affects childhood and teenagers in all parts of the world in many different ways. One possible recommendation to this problem might be to get a highly and strong support in relation to increase levels of qualified people and decrease ex-students' crime. I think that if we don't consider education's abandon as one of the main purposes to solve, all the proposed reasons may not be sufficient, because nothing will be changed in today's obligatory education law.







