Abortion has been one of the most controversial problems in recent years. Nowadays, women have the right to decide about their lives, something that was unthinkable fifty years ago, when the women depended on her husband or father. In recent years our society has been in constant evolution, and the idea of the women rights grows more and more every day and has aroused not only women. Abortion not only depends on the women but on the society, on the government, and on the religion of the country. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.

To begin with, there are a lot of arguments in favour of abortion, but they all depend on different aspects of the society, as I said before, such as the Government, which is the only one that can legalize abortion, and the religion of the country. Many people believe that each person should have the right to decide about their body, and this kind of people are in favour of the abortion, because they believe that no one can decide what you should do if you do not want to. The idea that illegalize the abortion is a way of denying the freedom is very extended between the people that agrees with abortion because the ability of a woman to have control of her body is critical to civil rights. Nowadays plenty of people are fighting in order to get a free abortion, because it will reduce definitely the non wanted pregnancies of young girls that do not have access to contraceptives.

There are several arguments against the abortions, mostly by religious. The majority of them strongly believe that abortion is a kind of murder, because it kills a new, innocent live, they think it is also a way of ignoring a God's gift, and they maintained that it is an indisputable medical evidence: the unborn baby is a human being, so abortion means murder. The problem with this arguments is that they do not care about the mother's decision, and they even forget how would be the life of a baby that is not loved, they only insist in the theory that it is a babies murder and this must be stopped, because unwanted children could be adopted, and they feel that defenceless baby needs special protection since it cannot stand up for its own rights. Another argument is that a lot of women had aborted in public hospitals, which means that we are all paying it, and they argue that this is bad for our economy. It has been argued that doctor and nurses must safe lives, not killing them, and abortions can also result in medical complications in later life.

There are other arguments regarding abortion, less radicals, which depend on the type of pregnancy. It is argued that sometimes the pregnancy needs to be stopped, because it is dangerous for the mother, or even if the baby is not healthy the mother has the right to decide what it is better. Another common feeling is that in the case of rape forcing a woman made pregnant by this violent act would cause further psychological harm to the victim, so in this case the mother can decide what is the best for her, and not for her baby. But all these kinds of abortions are only legal before three months of pregnancy when a fetus cannot exist independent of the mother, its health is dependent on her health, and cannot be regarded as a separate entity as it cannot exist outside her womb.

In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments that condemn and defend abortion, the first ones deal with the condition of people as the children of God, that must accept everything that is on their way, even if the do not want it, and the second one deals with the freedom of the women to choose if she wants to continue with her pregnancy. It could be argued that as individuals we must have the right to decide what we want to do with our body, and a society that denies this possibility may be interfering with people's freedom. 

