
 Abortion has been one of the most controversial problems in recent years.  Since medicine has progressed in the last decades and women can now decide whether they want to have their baby or to stop the pregnancy, this issue has become object of many critics and judgments by people and associations that consider this practice as immoral. In fact, 26% of all people reside in countries where abortion is illegal.  However, others affirm that is the woman the only one who has the right of choosing what to do with her pregnancy in any case.  In this essay I will discuss the main different opinions about abortion.
 Firstly, I will point out one of the arguments in favour of abortion. It is a belief that the right of women to take decisions about their lives is inalienable and the government shouldn't try to get involved because it is a personal matter.  National Abortion Campaign is a humanitarian group that defends not only the freedom of women to control their own fertility, but also that facilities for abortion should be in any NHS for every woman who needs them. Furthermore, the group Humanist Dipper suggests that abortion is a reasonable solution when the pregnancy hasn't been planned because it is better than bringing unwanted children into the world. These arguments seem to be very strong and difficult to deny.
  On the contrary, there are also those arguments against abortion.  Many people have argued that abortion is a murder because it consists of killing a person.  But this doesn't appear a very persuasive argument, since most of the people who share this idea are religious people and those who are atheist shouldn't have to accept obligatorily their rules or convictions.  According to Catholic Truth Society no pregnancy is unplanned because no baby can be conceived unless God intends that conception and so destroying unborn life is killing a human being created by God. This idea has been strongly critiqued by unbelievers. However, it has been widely accepted by religious people in many countries. 
 There are other arguments regarding abortion which depend on the degree of risk in the mother's life. According to researches done in 2003, most of the North American population supports the abortion rights, but this support varies considerably depending on the situation.  For example, 85 per cent of the respondents agreed with these rights only when the mother's life is endangered, while only 25 per cent said abortion ought to be legal in any circumstance. The problem with this argument is that it doesn't take account of those women whose pregnancy hasn't been planned and they don't feel psychologically prepared to have a baby. It could be argued that in those cases the baby might not be loved and it may possibly be given up for adoption at birth.
  Moreover, some people in the pro-life movement, which is against abortion, make a connection between contraception and abortion and insist that these are totally different.  Contraception prevents a life from coming while abortion takes a life that has already begun. According to these people, many women use abortifacients contraceptives that work by causing early terms abortions, which they consider as bad as an abortion itself because it kills a human being.  This argument doesn't appear convincing enough and may seem equally extreme as the one based on religious beliefs because it doesn't accept the interruption of the pregnancy in any circumstance.  Though, it seems reasonable to point out that abortion mustn't be taken as a contraceptive method, as this argument declares.
 To conclude, there are many points o view for and against abortion. Some of them deal with the freedom of women to choose about their fertility, and others deal with the religious morality. There are also others that accept abortion partly or just in some cases. The arguments in favour of abortion appear stronger and more reasonable than the ones against, which have been considered disrespectful with those people who don't have religious beliefs. It could be argued that women ought to be able to decide if they want to have a baby or not because it is an essential part of individual freedom. It also should be considered the possibility of legalizing abortion in those countries where nowadays this method is illegal, in order to guarantee women the right of deciding.

2


