In the last years, the problem of traffic in Madrid seems to have become even worse. Both in terms of air pollution and acoustic contamination, which are a great preoccupation for the citizens, many people feel that politicians should work on the solutions to this matter; in fact, a survey revealed in 2006 that the 51% of the population feels that the worst disadvantages of living in Madrid are the problems of traffic. In this essay I intend to propose some ideas that, in my view, could help to solve the problem.
  First of all, I would argue that banning some cars depending on the week might reduce the traffic jams. For example, by allowing circulating only cars with license plates finished on even number every two weeks and then doing the same thing with the ones ended up on odd number. It could seem that this is an unfair measure because people who work with their cars, such as bus or ambulance drivers, need their automobile every single day. However, I would suggest that those people could get a special license that would release them from this banning by demonstrating that they really work with their cars.
  A second possible solution, in my view, could be spending more money in public transport. Since most of the people work in Madrid and there are cities outside the capital where people have to wait up to half an hour to take the train, as it happens in Aranjuez. I consider it's necessary to reinforce the Renfe service with trains circulating more often. On the other hand, it is true that many people would argue that money should be spent on some other issues which they consider more important. Nevertheless, I personally feel that transport in Madrid is one of the problems the government ought to solve as fast as possible because, as I see it, if everyone had the chance of using public transport instead of the car, then traffic wouldn't be so heavy.
  It has been argued that using the bicycle in the city isn't a safe way of moving due to the abundance of cars. I strongly believe that riding a bicycle may help us keeping fit and reducing the problems of traffic in big cities, as well as helping to reduce the air pollution. Speaking personally, I would say that cycle-lanes in the center of the city is probably a useful idea that would also make citizens feel safer since they would be able to circulate without worrying about the cars. In addition, cyclists might find it a good way of knowing the city much better because they might ride the bicycle instead of using the underground.
 Furthermore, I personally feel that pedestrianizing some streets in Madrid may help improving the situation. I believe that it is not necessary to use the car in the center of the city because the underground service has been enlarged recently and it reaches most of the areas in the capital.  It could be argued that using the car is much more comfortable than using the underground, especially in summer, since there isn't air conditioned in some trains. Yet, in my view, those who don't like using the underground could use the cycle-lanes. Also, I believe solving the problem of traffic requires a little effort and everyone should try to understand it and cooperate.
 To sum up, the solutions presented, which are banning certain cars depending on the week, spending money to improve public transport, creating cycle-lanes in cities and a pedestrianizing some streets in the center of the city, are measures that could help solving the matter, but even more important is the society's collaboration. I strongly recommend people to think about the problem of traffic in Madrid and try to understand how serious this problem is and how much they could do with a little effort.
