Over the course of these decades, humanity has found different ways to move to places. One of these ways, it's the private vehicle, like cars, that their number has increase in an excessive way. People use very often cars to go to their jobs, to take children to school, or to do the shopping. In this essay I intend to argue that an effect of using private vehicles could cause problems about traffic, and also give my own solutions to these problems.

Firstly, I find a very usually problem in the most of big cities: "traffic jams". That happens because there are too much cars in the same roads, streets or motorways. Maybe a solution to this problem might be to promote the use of bicycle in cities, creating cycle lanes all over the cities, like in Amsterdam, where the majority of the people take their bicycles more than cars. 

Secondly, Councils, in my opinion, to solve this, could contribute to traffic problems giving to the citizens more facilities to take public transports, for example: more buses, more trains, and also more frequency of time all the day, not only in punctual periods of time, like lunch time. The problem to people is when they have to take public transport, because they have another concept about public transports, lots of stereotypes like the time to wait in the stops. With this solution, also when don't have to waste our own time looking for a place to park our car, and also wasting petrol.


Thirdly, I think that one of the solutions to the traffic problems could be a solution that it's in use in some South American's countries: cars can be driven depending on the letter of the car registration. For example: Cars that have in the registration a letter from A to E, can drive only on Monday, and so on.

Another one big problem in our society, and maybe the most serious, is the alcoholism while people drive, and their effects in people, not only people who drive, but people who walk in streets, like pedestrians, and other drivers. To solve this I suggest an increase of the number of police-controls and imposing bigger fines to those public enemies. This kind of person that drives with a big rate of alcoholism isn't psychologically aware of what he or she can do a lot of pain to the rest of the society, and also they don't have enough reflexes to dodge obstacles like a dog that cross a street or a person. 

Finally, I would like to give some significant pieces of information about traffic, given by DGT that, in my point of view, are very interesting to make us understand that vehicles are the causes of the pollution in all the world. Last year in Spain, the number of cars registration was 1.880.856 vehicles, and that suppose a low descent of 1,69% than in 2006. Anyway, this is a very big number of cars.


To conclude, in my view, my objective with this essay is to make sense about problems with traffic, but the most important thing is how we can solve them with all people contribution. If we put all the cars in Tenerife in a straight line, we could reach the Iberic peninsula. It's a very worry information if we thing that we are talking about cars in an island. This essay has focused in how to solve problems like this last one, giving some advices to make life easier to all. 



                                                        

