      			                    						Nowadays it's told that the relevance of education it's increased in the developing countries. Nearly all inhabitants of the developing world have been schooled at least until the age of sixteen. There's a strong conviction that that schooling it's absolutely necessary for every kid and furthermore they could have to be at school until the age of eighteen.  In this following essay I would argue the fact that if it's necessary for children to be at school until eighteen or shall be some exceptions.
      To begin with there are a lot of families that can manage it but need money for some other matters and need one more person that can earn money for that purpose. In that case there could be a solution found in the distantly university, which tries to arrange high studies with working life, or maybe the homeschooling that it has started to be heard from a few years ago. Anyway I think most of the children have a well organized family and an average economy which can afford the studies of their kids; it's supposed to be that money is not an impediment for it. 
      In the other hand they say that it's not quite right to do that, because the students who are forced to go may start messing up with even teachers and classmates. In that case, the problem is not with teachers, but with the student in fact, who should be respectful to them besides her anger, classmates and teachers don't have the guilt.
      Even so, other good thing of gathering knowledge until 18 is that well formed students will be better prepared to live autonomous, in my opinion, than people who didn't finish their studies. When you're at school you doesn't just learn the subjects, they also learn to cooperate with teammates, to choose the way to reach an objective and to think by their selves. That is really important in order to be prepared for the life over the next years.
      And moreover I think people should keep going to school because nowadays the most valuable jobs need some training that is only reached after some years at a previous degree. But someone could have thought that if people keep studying over 18, it will be to reach decent work, and temporary employment agencies and franchises could result in a lack of workers.  Nevertheless there will be always people who will get that kind of jobs, like outsiders who haven't got a degree, or students who want some pocket money. Besides that, I'm sure that if such work were better paid, people could consider getting onto them. 
      To sum up, after having considered that the money is not a problem, the respect is primary and my opinion about the tiny salary of the franchises; my verdict is that people must go compulsory to school until age 18. I recommend it because world knowledge and general culture is needed on every single person, to ensure we have own thinking and we're not being manipulated as easily as seems. 
      
