The education in Spain consists of four stages: early childhood, elementary, high school and SCS, before going to university or do a module or go to work.

Early childhood: Its primary objective is stimulate the development of all physical abilities and emotional, intellectual and social. This stage is divided into two stages: the first comprises the ages of zero to three years and the second of three to six.
The experiences in the first years of life are of great significance in the subsequent development of the individual. At this early stage is when you form the neural structures, processes occur identification and sociabilitatión, there is a physical growth and psychomotor development perceptual and intellectual potential, which enables the development of relations with the environment and with their peers.
All this will lead to a number of accomplishments that will be the structure of the subsequent experiences. According to these experiences as ordered will develop the personality, establishing the foundation of interactions that are made in the future.
The primary education comprises six academic courses, from the age of six to twelve years of age and is organized into three cycles of two years each. 
Students entering the primary age in the calendar year in which met six years of age.
The SCS (secondary schooling): is free and full and complete basic education: Elementary and SCS. 
Its purpose is that all students acquire the basic elements of culture, especially in its humanistic aspects, artistic, scientific and technological. Developed and considered in the habit of study and work.
Its main objective is to prepare students for inclusion in subsequent studies and their incorporation into the world of work. 
Form  them to exercise their rights and obligations as citizens in life.
In spain, you must be studing only up to 16 years, under normal circumstances until 4 º ESO. 

In my opinion, there must be obligatory education up to 18 years, because society need intelligent youngers, who can speak with anybody about all themes. 
First of all, a person with a certain education can make decisions, 
has better judgement and the education give you more freedom and security, and this is crucial in the process to be a good person.
There are many students who drop out of school when they are 16 years because they are no longer obliged by law to continue studying.
Being free the education, students do not take seriously their education because many of them may think that without it, could  be someone in the society. And  because of it there are cases like abstinence and the pupils leaf the school without having done sufficient courses to have general education.






First of all, a person with a certain education can make decisions, 
has better judgement and the education give you more freedom and security, and this is crucial in the process to be a good person.
Other reason is that for example a teenager who is working in a company the boss can explode him because he has not the education
to defend their rights, and he does not know anything about general
culture and this thing.

If the age of compulsory education will increase, achieved that most children reach the university to consider to study a career and be useful to society because they would have an education to decide if they want really study whether or not.
Finally, If we increase the compulsory education age to eighteen years will raise the culture of the country.
Adults know that raising the age of compulsory education gives a person more opportunities in the workplace.

In conclusion, age should be increased to 18 because in my opinion and according to the reasons I have given, it would be very positive both for the people themselves and in the future that could take advantage of compulsory education, and for the world economy and the country that would largely benefit from this measure.

                                       

