    Marijuana, also known as cannabis, is considered as a drug, like heroine, 
cocaine or hachis. Its possession is illegal in all the countries in Europe 
except in Holland and the punishment of having it is to stay in prison five 
years more or less. However, quiet people smoke marijuana and they are 
moaning because it is illegal and they are asking for its legalisation. But this 
has created many discussions in the government and especially among the 
population. In this essay I will discuss and analyse the points of view 
concerning the legalisation of marijuana.
    To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of the legalisation 
of marijuana. Some people believe that if tobacco and alcohol are legal why 
not cannabis because it is not so dangerous and nobody have died on 
account of smoking marijuana. Also, it is apparently true that the 
legalisation of this drug would reduce the consumption of other drugs, like 
cocaine or heroine, which are more harmful, because they could take 
marijuana freely and with no worries about being caught by the police, and 
the black market and the traffic with them too, because marijuana would 
be cheaper to buy than these kind of drugs. Another possible argument is 
that the law does not stop the obtaining of marijuana and its consumption, 
so it is unuseful to have this law because everybody break it and it seems 
to encourage people to get and smoke cannabis. Thus the government is 
wasting time and money by banning marijuana. Taxpayers are forced to pay 
billions of dollars to persecute, prosecute, and incarcerate people for 
having marijuana. This argument appears to be a more convincing argument, 
because if marijuana were legal, this money, plus tax revenues from 
marijuana sales, could be used for other purposes such as education system 
or health care.
    On the other hand, there are many opinions against the legalisation of 
marijuana. Some people believe that if marijuana were legal, it would 
promote its consumption and there would be more addiction to drugs. And 
this could be the beginning of the legalisation of other drugs like cocaine or 
heroine. It seems that this would create more health and psychologist 
problems as the tobacco or alcohol have caused. For example, the Chilean 
psychiatrist, Daniel Martínez, explains that the frequent use of marijuana 
increases the risk of having problems in the lungs such as asthma 
emphysema (loss of elasticity in the lungs that stops exhaling the normal 
quantity of air) or even cancer. He also says that other affections are the 
variation of the blood pressure and the increase of the cardiac frequency. 
Although Martínez clarifies that marijuana does not kill cerebral cells, he 
assures that its consumption can affect the normal functioning of the 
brain. This seems a logical argument, because it exposes all the problems 
that marijuana could provoke and that it could be worse if it were legal 
because it would increase all these health problems.    
    There are other arguments concerning legalisation of marijuana, which 
depend on the use of marijuana with therapeutics purposes. Some scientific 
studies have proved that cannabis is effective with severe patients of 
AIDS, cancer or other diseases. Marijuana can control the sick feeling 
caused by the medicines used in order to AIDS or cancer and rises the 
appetite and the weight in AIDS patients. Moreover, it helps to lighten the 
pain of arthritis and sclerosis and the discomfort of terminal patients. 
That's why Scientifics and some people would agree to legalise marijuana, 
but just with a prescription in order to be used in special cases and 
diseases. The problem with this argument is that marijuana is addictive and 
when patients smoke it, when they must stop to do it, they would not be 
able to stop smoking marijuana so easily. And it damages the lungs and the 
brain, so marijuana can be effective in some diseases but it causes others.    
    In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments both for and 
against the legalisation of marijuana. Some of them accept marijuana as 
legal because it would reduce the consumption of other drugs and the 
money that it is spending in prohibiting it could be invested in improve 
other systems. However, other opinions are that the consumption of 
marijuana is bad for the health and it is a vice and addictive, so there would 
be several healthy problems in the future. Other arguments are in favour 
of the legalisation just in the case of therapeutics marijuana and if it is 
used to fight some diseases such as AIDS and cancer but the use of 
marijuana would damage the lungs and the brain. Even so, the therapeutics 
marijuana should be approved because it is good for patients and it permits 
to continue the studies about its benefits, but it ought to use in special 
cases and only if the patient wants because they should be free to know 
the secondary effects and choose if they want to take marijuana.
