      
      Thoroughout history the homosexuality has been in force. Some of the 
most well known writers like William Shakespeare or Oscar Wilde, poets 
such as Federico García Lorca or Safo, singers, for example Freddy 
Mercury, were homosexuals and all were discriminated by society and many 
were even punished because they were considered rare and without any 
right. However, recently a law, which allows these people to get married, 
has been passed and, although quite people think that it is a good thing, 
there are still some that do not agree with this law and they reject gays 
and lesbians. In this essay I intend to explain why we should not 
discriminate these people and give my opinion about the marriage between 
homosexuals and why, in my view, they should be allowed to get married.      
      The discrimination that homosexuals have suffered for many years is 
very known. That's why they prefered to keep their secret and to get 
married with someone of the other sex. But when the world became more 
liberal, they decided not to hide and to express their real feelings, ones 
accepted them but others did not due to that went against their essentials, 
so they went on to discriminate them. For my part, I do not feel they 
should be discriminated because they are "diferent". In fact, I think people 
are free to do whatever they want and to feel attract to whomever they 
prefer because nobody can change the way of thinking and acting. We live 
in the 21st century and I believe that humanity has matured and we don't 
have the same believes that people had centuries ago. Even in the Ancient 
Greek they saw the homosexuality something natural.      
      In my opinion, I think homosexuals should be able to get married. They 
have the same rights as heterosexuals to join their lives. They ought to be 
free to get married if that is what they want and they should not care 
about whoever that think it is horrible. However, at the moment, some 
parts of the society, especially aged people and those who are very 
conservative and tradicionalist, do not support this idea of permiting 
homosexuals to get married. They think it is inmoral because it is not in 
accordance with the true nature of the humans: a person must get married 
another person of the other sex, i.e. a man with a woman or vice versa. 
Moreover, it is not approved by the main religions, and they have much 
influence among people. Nevertheless, the most important thing in a 
marriage, and everybody usually agree, is that the married couple love each 
other and I personal believe it does not matter if they are of different sex 
or not because the feelings have more importance. And concerning to the 
nature of humans, I think that people could get over if it is broken, 
although there will be always someone who protest about this.      
      After having obtained to get married, now they would like to adopt 
children. Personally speaking, I believe it is a good idea because there are a 
lot of orphan and abandon children in orphanages that are waiting for a 
couple to adopt them. On the other hand, somebody feel that it could be a 
trauma to the child due to it would not be a conventional family, with 
parents from different sex. Besides this, other children would make jokes 
or they would shun him/her. However, in my view, if parents educated their 
children to see that it is not something rare to have parents from the same 
sex, that child would not suffer. People would just need to get used to 
seeing it normal because the traumas that the child who is brought up by a 
homosexual couple would be caused by the discrismination he or she would 
receive.      
      In conclusion, firstly, gay people should not be discriminated owing to 
their sexual orientation because the most important thing is the love. 
That's why the should be allowed to get married because they can 
desmonstrate their love each other and it does not mind if some people 
think it is inmoral or antireligious because they have the same rights that 
heterosexuals. And secondly, they can adopt children because many 
children in orphans are looking for parents and this is not necessary to be a 
problem to the child if people assimilate it. Finally, I think people are free 
to decide the person they fall in love and it does not mind the sex and 
nobody can forbide it.


