
Is this what you would want to have going through your head when you congratulate your friends on their baby's or when you see little kids playing at the parks or on TV?  Or when your sister or brother has a kid and you don't, and they wonder why you don't have kids and you have to tell them? Abortion is defined by, "any of various surgical methods for terminating a pregnancy, during the first six months". According to Abortionfacts.com, the baby's first heartbeat is about the 21st day. This is when I believe a child is alive. Murder is defines as, "the killing of another human being under conditions specifically covered in law". Well if a baby is alive at 21 days in the womb and murder is killing a human being then when we abort kids, we murder them.
A point that is brought up a lot with the discussion of abortion is, what should happen with rape and incest victims. While rape is a very traumatic thing for an individual, it is something that the person has to live with for the rest of their lives.  This is already enough to bare forever but to add something, as abortion, to the list of things to bear, as you grow older, is just horrific. The worst of the situation happens during the rape. Then after abortion the person must live with the thought of killing her own baby that she could've had and given life to. This is the 2nd violent act she must deal with, the 1st being the rape. This is the situation of the ever-so-hated murderer in today's society.
There are about 170,000 rapes in a year in the U.S., 140,000 attempted rapes. But the pregnancy rates are what usually people get confused about. There are 1 or 2 pregnancies for every 1000 rape victims bringing our numbers to about 250 pregnancies due to rape every year, which is still a pretty low number. There is also a birth every 8 seconds and a death of a baby ever 11 seconds. This means that our population is growing at less than 1% every year. So if we continue to kill baby's by abortion then the already-less-than 1% will decrease even more and eventually could lead to zero if we keep it up long enough.
The solution for abortion is very simple and could be handled very easily. When a woman knows that she is pregnant, whether its from a rape case or from her boyfriend being dumb and not protecting himself or from the woman not taking her birth control or whatever the case may be, she can always put the baby up for adoption once it is born. That way, when the child finds a loving family who is willing to take care of it and give it the best home and care, he can actually be loved and not just the kid who the mom was almost going to abort. Instead he can live with a loving, cherishing family. This is a very plain and simple solution that could help us all. This the situation of the ever-so-loved lover in today's society.
Will the solution ever happen with everyone? No, it will not. Some people will still abort their baby's and take their little innocent lives from them but some will decide that the baby could actually be something when he or she grows up and will put them up for adoption because they are not ready for the commitment of parenting. So now it's up to today's society to maybe change the way things are done and make abortion illegal so these baby's have to be cared for and loved. After all, who wants to be in the situation of poor, having the thought for the rest of her life that she "killed her own baby"?
