          In the last years, great part of the Madrilenian population is concerned by the pollution which is in the sky of Madrid, the majority is produced by the traffic of this city. In this essay, I intend to argue why exists so many traffic problems in Madrid. I will also suggest some possible solutions to reduce this traffic and pollution problems. 
First of all, I believe that citizens play an important role, in this issue the population must be consciousness about this problem and react to some situations. By all of this, I think that more campaigns to foment public transport should be done. Furthermore, vehicles used for public should be ecologic. In this way, traffic and pollution would be reduced, due to the use of less private vehicles. The problem is that people may not look forward to this change, because being a user of the public transport means having to depend on their timetables, and this is more uncomfortable...
A possible solution, which in fact is used in other private companies, is contracting bus services for the transport of workers, or that these employees from the same company arrange themselves to share the cars in which they go to work instead of each one of them using its own.
One possible proposition would be subventions of the government for the creation of more rail bike and create a program in which citizens, by paying a small share they have got bicycles available to travel around the city zones. With this idea sport would also be fomented.
In my view, the city could also be habilitated for tram use. Due to the fact, that eventhough Madrid has subway, many people could suffer from claustrophobia. The problem is that many people would be opposed to this idea, because the construction of a tram system would cost a lot of money.
To conclude, we have seen the different solutions to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid, but it is very difficult that we obtain it because always there are people in spite of all. The importance of this is that we don't know what we are doing with the atmosphere.




