For some time, some people have wondered if the obligatory education should be up to 18 years or not, in Spain. I think that to have a good formation educational is very important to our future. For that, in this essay, I will discuss the reasons why obligatory education is major up 18 than up 16 years (the case of Spain). To argue it, I will regard the follow points: advantage to get a job, how should be all schools and how should be all teachers.
First, I personally believe that if people finish the school at 18 years, when they want to find a job will have more advantage than people who has 16, because they have more experience and knowledge to make it. Usually bosses choose their employees for the experience they have. Besides, this way, the employers would have the mature age and they would have all the responsibilities as an adult and would show more capacity and confidence in the moment of be interviewed to get a job. In other countries, as Japan, for example, the education system is designed up to 18, and we know as "high school", there, is divided in two parts: low secondary, and high secondary, each both divided in three courses.  The Japanese students, in this example, are more prepared than Spanish students in view of the future and, in my view Spain should be the same as Japan, in this aspect. However, there are cases where bosses only contract people without caring about the age, because the only thing that they want is having more people working. In my opinion, there is a huge difference between these jobs: the salary.

Second, I think education centers are other important factor. At present, many students haven't the possibility to make Superior Studies (Professional Modules and High school diploma), because they are very expensive and students can't pay it. If the obligatory education would be up to 18, this wouldn't be an impediment because those studies would be included. Although, by other way, there are students who don't want to continue studying and they prefer to get a job and to concern in to get money because they want be independents. Also there are to stress the difference between a public center and concerted center. Not only by the difference of level that both have but by the means to the students. If a student from a public center, for example, wants to study a specialty different would have to go at other school because his school hasn't at one's disposal. In my view, each school should have a great variety of options to choose or to put all schools at the same level.
It has been argued that the school level changes in different schools depending which would be, if public or concerted. Principally, the level depends on the formation and capacity of teachers, but also depends of the school's structure and if it can allow to impart certain subjects.  Some students, who don't want to study, are obligated to make it and that suggests, sometimes, a distraction for the rest. Those students can be against the obligation education would be up to 18 because that reason: they don't want to study. However, teachers are who can make something on this matter, as for example they could make stronger their authority. On the other hand, other aspect to value is the quantity of students in one same class. If there are big groups of students, teacher can't give better the class because they can't dedicate at their students for lack of time. In my view, each class shouldn't have more of 20 students.      
In conclusion, I think that the obligatory educational system should be up to 18 years and for that, the system should be more efficient. In my view, all schools should have good teachers and suitable installations to give better subjects. I feel that would be better that all schools would be the same, that there wouldn't be any differences between a public or concert school. And we would have to continue studying till 18 because after, we would have more possibilities to find a job. A good job.












