Nowadays the subject of abortion is very popular in the society, and there are many debates about this. Should be abortion legal or not? In Spain it is legal, but with certain conditions: the pregnancy shouldn't pass twelve weeks if abortion wants to carry out, for example.  In a general way, in this essay, I am going to show the different arguments that people and Catholic's church use regarding abortion and their refutations. 
Many people say that if the "therapeutic abortion" (when the woman is in danger by her pregnancy) doesn't legalize, then it is inhuman.  However, some Catholics argue that the term "therapeutic" is confusing. "Therapy" means to heal but in this case, the abortion cures nothing. Since 1951, the "Congreso de Cirujanos del American College" guaranties that there are not circumstances where someone should choose between the life of the mother or the child. On the other hand, others doctors can argue that the mother's life is more important that the child's because giving birth always implies some risks.
It could be said that abortion should be legalized because every children must be loved. Catholics would say that "loving or not loving" don't affect to the dignity of a person. The child is not a "thing". On the other hand, if a woman is not happy about her pregnancy in the first months, that doesn't mean that she wouldn't love her child when it born. And if that were the case, the parents always can give to the child in adoption - where couples that can't have own children, can adopter it.
One of the main arguments in favour of abortion is the statement about the woman has right about her own body. Catholics would agree with this, but until certain point. Can somebody eliminate a neighbor only because that person is bothering him? Obviously not. The case of abortion is the same. The woman wouldn't be deciding about her own body if not about other person who is in her interior: her child. However, other people think that if the fetus is not grown yet, then it is not a person and for that can carry on abortion. In Spain exists the norm about twelve days for this reason.
Finally, some people point out that abortion is a simple operation as to take out a molar, almost without collateral damages.  Numbers contradicted that. The sterility increase in 10%, after of a legal or sporadic abortion. Besides, the researches use to confirm that a violent interruption of the pregnancy can cause bosom's cancer. Some people who is in favour say that abortion is less dangerous than giving birth. This statement seems to be false: abortion, in the last month of pregnancy, is more dangerous. In rich countries, women die twice by legal abortion that by problems with the childbirth. On the other hand, some women have psychological problems after of the abortion.  It is known as the post abortion syndrome.
Of course, some people argue that abortion should be legalized, but they cannot be conscious of these points or, actually, because they want to avoid their responsibilities, especially if those people are connected with the pregnant one. 
Also exists an abortion emerged after a violation. Everything would be different. Many people think that in this case abortion is fine, because it is not "normal" that could be considered as an aberration. But, Catholics would affirm the same I have presented before.       
In conclusion, the subject of abortion depends on each one's of thinking. Catholic's church defends that abortion is something against nature, because each life has a valor that God give. But, the question is: How can resolve this problem? The answer is very simple, having precaution during sex to prevent the possible pregnancy. If they don't want a child, then they shouldn't be so careless and they should use condoms or the woman should take the pill. Contraceptive can be a very simple solution to this problem. 












