
               In contrast to a century ago when there were almost any cars and people were used to travel by carriage or go walking, nowadays the automotive fleet has reach two millions and a half cars being used every day through Madrid streets. This excessive use has caused many traffic problems such as accidents; environmental and acoustic pollution like Greenhouse Effect; stress and difficulties which can get on drivers nerves and cause accidents or loose their job if they arrive late to work and fear on pedestrians, motorcyclists and people who ride a bike between or near cars. In this essay I will try to point out some possible solutions that I believe might reduce the traffic problems in Madrid like the development of public transport, the creation of dissuasive car parks on the outskirts of the city or economic methods such as increasing the tools at the entrance of the city or the car parks fares.

               There are many public transports in Madrid, some of the most important seem to be: the train, the underground, buses or bicycles which in my opinion can reduce the traffic because they can hold up many people in only one travel, some of them doesn't give off dangerous fumes like trains that use electricity or the buses that use natural gas and also this kind of transports has an own lane. Some people, however think that using public transport is not an effective solution because is overcrowd, specially in rush hours; there isn't a flexibility of timetables and sometimes due to the improvements works have delays. However, I disagree with this because the overcrowding problem and delays only happens at certain hours. Also, there are frequent services and people can get used to timetables.

               Secondly, according to the Pacto Ciudadano por la Movilidad Sostenible de Madrid, I agree that creating dissuasive car parks on the outskirts of the city will avoid many traffic jams in the city centre moreover the decreasing parking fare depending on the distance, the further the parking is, the less money people would have to pay. However, there are those who believe these places are too far from the city centre and they would have to spend a lot of time to enter and they feel less worried about stealing their cars if they got their car near where they are going. Also some associations such as Greenpeace or Ecologistas en acción are against because they strongly believe that it would be necessary the destruction of natural spaces. Personally speaking I feel that it wouldn't be necessary much time because the dissuasive parking will have many  be situated near means of transport or interchangers, instead if you travel by car until the city centre where is difficult to find a vacant parking place and sometimes people spend more time looking for it. Also, there will be special security systems such as video control or policemen and people wouldn't have to pay an entrance fare. Furthermore this solution has been put into practise in other European countries like Paris or Munich using arid fields with favourable results.

               Finally, another solution to traffic problems could be to introduce new methods such as increasing the tools at he entrance of the city or the parking fares accompanied of a decrease of the number of hours that are opened in my opinion this will mean a decline of traffic through Madrid because people won't be able to use the car frequently. Some people, however, maintain that is preferable using other methods like parking metres or a new system that has been developed in Rome and consists on an alternation of days to allow the entrance to the city centre only cars with odd or even registration numbers because not all of them can afford paying many taxes. It seems to me, that parking metres can be as expensive as tools depending on the frequency of use. Also, my own opinion about the regulation of the traffic using the registration number of the cars is not at all an useful solution due to the people who got more than one car or those with a higher economic position could be able to buy new cars and have more possibilities to have both kinds of numbers which I think is unfair and wouldn't reduce the traffic because the number of cars being use will be almost the same and also would continue contributing to pollution.

               To conclude, it is clear from my point of view that traffic problems are mainly caused by the excessive traffic in Madrid and I have suggested some solutions to show the importance from my own view that public transport or new alternatives take in the issue to reduce this kind of problems. But also I think that it is necessary the government control and economic contribution of the current authorities to make these improvements, in addition to a good social education to promote proper attitudes such as not using the cars in short distances or buying houses near the work place and initiatives like Un Día sin Coches. I believe that if these solutions are taken into account part of the problem can be reduced.

  


