
     In the history of abortion, induced abortion has been source of considerable controversy, debate and activism. In many European countries such as France, Italy or Finland abortion is legal without exceptions; other countries including Spain or Great Britain consider it legal or illegal depending of the circumstances (rapes, health or socioeconomic factors, foetal defects...). Finally, there are countries where abortion is illegal with no exceptions, like Chile or Nicaragua. Anyway, the individual positions towards abortion depend of moral, philosophical, ethical, biological, and legal issues, often related to the value system. In this essay I intend to show and analyse the variety of viewpoints concerning abortion taking into account these issues.
     
     The pro-life viewpoint, mainly represented by Catholicism has always showed a strong disapproval towards abortion, defending that the life begins in the conception, so interrupting a pregnancy is a murder. They consider that no civilized society permits one human to intentionally harm or take the life of another human without punishment, and abortion is not different. Moreover, according to their opinion, abortion frequently causes intense psychological pain and stress, and medical complications later in life. These arguments seem reasonable, but they don't take into account extreme cases, life rapes or incest, or the right of the mother to decide about her reproductive choice. Also, this appears to be a religious opinion which many atheists may not share.
     
     The opposite opinion is the pro-choice's one, which maintains that the ability of a woman to have control of her body is critical to civil rights. They state that abortion isn't a crime, since most of them take place in the first trimester of pregnancy, when a foetus cannot exist independent of the mother and cannot be considered a person yet. The pro-choice defenders claim also that medical abortions have less of a 0,5% risk of complications. All of these arguments appear to be convincing, although they don't consider uncontrolled and unsafe abortions or the possible use of them as a form of contraception.
     
     It has been also defended a mid-point opinion which considers an abortion legal in case of health issues. People who defend this viewpoint claim that abortion should be allowed when there's a risk for the mother's health or when there are important foetal defects which will cause a great pain for the baby. This may be a sensitive position, since it deals with medical matters, which seem to be very often more objective and less debatable than ethical or moral values.
     
     Another argument which takes into account the specific context for abortion is the one which states that it should be permitted in case of tragic situations, such as incest or rapes. It is argued that in these specific cases the great value of the mental health of a woman who becomes pregnant as a result of rape or incest can best be safe-guarded by abortion. It is also said that a pregnancy caused by rape or incest is the result of a grave injustice and that the victim should not be obliged to carry the foetus to viability. As the previous viewpoint, this one could be considered strong and logical, because it deals with the specific circumstances that motivate the abortion.
     
     To conclude, there are several attitudes towards abortion: some of them take account of moral and ethical values to consider it right or wrong, like the right to life of the baby since his/her conception or the freedom of women to decide about their own body. Other perspectives appear to be more accurate, since they include and value the circumstances and context, whether they are related to the health of the baby or the mother or to violent crimes that can cause a pregnancy. Then, it is reasonable to suggest that it is important to consider and respect the different values and reasons that people have against or in pro of abortion, since probably nothing seems to be right or wrong without considering people's values and concrete circumstances.
