
     Compulsory education exists since it was affirmed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in 1948. In Spain, the current stage of obligatory education comprises from the ages of 6 to 16 years, since the promulgation of the LOGSE in 1990. However, nowadays there is a controversy about extending it to the age of 18, as Izquierda Unida defends on its election programme or like some countries are trying to apply (as recently happened in Nederland). In this essay I intend to argue that, as I see it, obligatory education could be extended to the age of 18, with one particularity: those two extra years should be used to provide specific job training to students who want to begin working in specific technical jobs.

     Many people claim that students at the age of 16 are mature and adult enough to choose whether they want to study or to work. However, I feel that during adolescence many teenagers are mostly influenced by friends and television, and what they consider is most important is getting a job as fast as possible to earn their own money, and leaving behind those boring academic matters, so they are not be aware of the importance of studying in order to get a better job in the long term. Some of these students, after checking how hard is to get a job without studies and how bad paid are them, take up again their classes.

     I strongly feel that the extension of the maximum age of compulsory education to 18 would be really useful to fight against precarious jobs, those with very low salaries and a lot of hours per journey which young people without training have to take. Through those two years of practical training for a specific job, these students could get a qualification, and that means very often better labour conditions. Some people can argue that a qualification not always means higher salaries, nevertheless in my view having it increases the possibilities of not being exploited and getting a better job.

     It is also reasonable to point out that those students who don't want to study more are being forced or punished if obligatory education period increases, and that their negative attitude would affect to the whole education system, since they would slow down the rest of the students who have a real interest in their studies, as it often happens in the ESO. However, personally speaking, that wouldn't happen, since those students would choose different itineraries that the ones who want to enter the University, so they would be in different groups. Also, I think they would probably feel motivated, because those two years would be very practical and focused on their future jobs, the ones that they have chosen. Moreover, to contribute to their motivation they can also be given little pays for their practices.

     To sum up, in this essay I have defended that it is necessary to provide a qualification to every single student in order to fight against precarious jobs, motivating those students who don't want to study through job-aimed practical lessons and little salaries. My own opinion is that the best solution for this is to extend compulsory education to the age of 18 so in that way students from the age of 16 can learn a job they prefer and how to manage in the labour system. As I see it, people shouldn't worry so much about the age students end their compulsory studies, but to take into account the importance of culture and education have in adult life, something which is essential to form good human beings.
