

Nowadays, the abortion issue is becoming more and more known. It is known that the meaning of abortion is the interruption of the pregnancy, and as a result of it, the death of the fetus, But who can decide this? The parents? The mother only? The Church? The doctors? The government?...Some people are against it, other in favor. In this essay I will discuss the abortion apects from differents points of view, why people are against it, explaining their reasons, and why not.


In the Ancient Greece and Rome, the abortion, was generally alloweed and accepted. Since the Right became human, by the Christianism's influence, this action has been punished as a crime. For the Church it  is a murder of a human being, so the Catholic Church has sentenced the abortion since ever.In 847 a.D., some canonic sentences were approved:"To the woman who has have an abortion, 10 years of penance, have to be prescribe". Some Popes, as Esteban V, believed that commit an abortion was a homicide. Although the catholic viewpoint seems to be true, it has certain weaknesses; the world has developed. It is tru, that for some people it could be a murder, but for other it could be a salvation, why would some like to have a child who don't want. Nowadays, it is also known that  many people aren't so catholic as they were 50 years ago, and it could be, that maybe for this, a few number of the world's population don't believe what the churches say.


On the other hand, there are some people who believe that having an abortion is a good reason. They said that if the parents don't want a child on that specific moment of their lives, why they would have a not-loved kid, maybe when he grew up, he could have some problems because of this. Another reason, they propose is that what happens if the mother is a rape's victim,what duty has she to carry with a baby of an stranger? And many other questionsñ. This could be consider a realistic perspective, however some people feel that the people who believe abortion is right have to understand that, in some way,they are killing a life, and they don't have the right to do it.It 's true that if having the baby must suppose a danger to the mother, it has to be stopped , in some cases, putting before a mother's life instead of the fetus.










It has been argued for many political reasons the right or not-right of abortion. For some countries it's legally, for others, it is not.It has been said that the Anglo-Saxon System considered that avoiding absolutely an abortion means the violation of the fundamental rights os a woman. Since the end of the 2nd World War, (Iceland was the first one to legalize the therapeutic one in 1935)many countries started to legalize the abortion  when it was done to protect the mother's life. In 50's most of the non socialestics countries of East and Center of Europe began to consider the act of having an abort as a legal one when it was done in the 1st semester of pregnancy and with the mother's permission; so in 1973 there were 44 countries in where the abort was legal, and of those 44, only 19 alloweed it for medical reasons, 6 for moral reasons, and another 19 for several reasons. This point is already convincing (most of the world countries allow the abort), however it's said that for some European countries such as Italy, Ireland and more with a strong catholic influence, this action hasn't been legalize yet, considering it is an attack to the human rights. It can be say that if more and more countries permit the abort to be legally, no matter the reasons, in a few years only the countries with a strong and vital influence of the Church would be the ones against it.


To conclude this essay, it could be consider that the Church and some important people with influence could keep the act of abortion as an illegal act, instead of many other important people who believe in the right of abortion. As it is said, for other countries it 's legal, and possibly many women would go  there to have their abortions, hiding themselves from a punishment. Considering these viewpoints, it seems to be reasonable the abortion as a theme to be treated carefully, having its right and wrong points, some of the cultural features and realigious ones analyzed.
