
In contrast to a generation or two ago when children did not use to go to school (because they had to work to earn money for the family), now education is obligatory. In 1990 the LOGSE was approved in Spain and the obligatory education changed from 14 to 16 years old. But nowadays some educational experts want to extend this law to 18 years. I personally believe that this is harmful for teachers and also for students who want to learn, so in this essay I intend to argue that it is not a good idea to oblige people to study until the age of 18.

It seems to me that from 14 to 16 education should be divided in two groups of studies: pre-university studies and modules of vocational courses. Today most children between 14 and 16 years old go to school but some of them do not want to study or have a university degree. I personally think that those students who do not want to carry on with their studies after 16, are wasting their time at school because they are not preparing themselves for the future. In my opinion once they are over 16 they should be working on something that they like (mechanics, electricity or whatever they like).Conversely some parents and teachers prefer them at school because they say that they are too young to work. I strongly disagree, as I reckon they have the proper age to decide about their future.

In my own view, I believe that extend the obligatory education up to 18 years old is not beneficial as the children that do not want to study, will only do one thing, like, disturb the others that want to study and pay attention in class. However there are associations that think that compulsory education should be up to 18 years old because in these two extra years the children can study a profession to prevent labour abuse.Inspite of that, I believe that we can find labour abuse at different ages, no necessary when you are an adolescent.

The role of teachers is a very important thing that most parents do not take into account.It appears to me that the role of teachers will vary if education becomes obligatory until the age of 18. Students will feel like they are in jail as they are made to study against their will .Consequently teachers will have to deal with students that do not want to study and disturb the class. On the other hand some parents will argue that education is much more than teaching maths or biology, and teachers should adapt themselves to their new roles. However, I totally disagree, since teachers should dedicate their time mainly to teach new concepts and parents should educate adolescents in the other areas.

The freedom of choice is a right that all people ought to have. I strongly feel that children should have freedom of choice because if you force them to study they will become more rebellious. Some parents will point out that children over 16 are not mature enough to decide about their future. However I believe that they are prepared to make their own decisions because at 16 years old you are conscious about all things that happen around you.

In conclusion to this I believe that it is a bad idea to change what the LOGSE has established because if the law changes there will be more problems. I reckon that the system  should remain the same,otherwise students will not progress. To solve this problem I suggest some measures should be taken into account: firstly parents should create the ideal atmosphere at home for their children to study and make them know the importance of a study routine. Unless these family rules are put into practice, changing compulsory education to the age of 18 will be pointless.
