
Abortion has been one of the most controversial problems in recent decades. The progress of medicine gives the possibility of aborting to woman who do not want to going on with their pregnancy either because they have been raped, the baby is suffering some type malformation or just because they do not want to have the baby. However, there are lot of people that are against abortion, like the church and very religious people, some other have a mid-view  and think that it is a good thing but only in special cases. Those who are in favour believe that every person should have freedom to do what they want with their body. In this essay i will discuss different viewpoints about the ethics of abortion.

To begin with, there are several arguments against abortion. Many conservatives religious people think that this is murder. One of the strongest arguments suggested by some of these people is that it can not be moral to kill someone else as God is the only one who can decide our fate. The Pope Benedicto XVI states that no person has the right to kill anyone else, because although the baby has not been born yet, it is a new life. On the other hand, it could be argued that the child is not really a person at all until it is born, because it has no name, no identity and no legal status, and moreover it should not be allowed to resdtrict the freedom of its parents.

Some arguments for abortion are maintained mostly by young and liberal people. Many of them think that every person should have freedom of choice to decide what they want to do with their body and their life. These people argue that the baby is not a new life until it is born. If parents were denied abortion, and furthermore compelled, they will have a child they do not want so this would be negative for the child, who will feel he is not loved. This may be true, but it should also be admited that parents usually get soon to love the child once they hold them in their arms.

Some people agree with abortion under some circunstances but not others. They are for when the mother 's life is at risk, in cases of rape, or when the bay has an illnes or malformation. Other wise when there are other reasons like the parents do not want the baby, because they think that they are too young or they have problems at home, these people are gainst abortion. The problem with this argument is that in many cases it is difficult to tell when the mothers of the babies are at risk, or when there are family problems which will justify the abortion.

In conclusion there are three different points of view about abortion. Firstly, the view held by religious people who argue that it is unmoral to kill someone,although this could be a radical point of view for those who do no believe in God. . Secondly, the arguments in favour maintained by liberals who think that everyone should decide also what to do in life. Thirdly, ever opinion of those who think that it is acceptable but only under certain circunstances. It would be reasonable to think that if abortion were in all situations, people would be careless,contraceptives would be disregarded and abortion clinics would face an increasing demand of operations which they would be unable to cope with.

