


Possible solutions to the traffic problems in Madrid and some solutions that Madrid's Council has already carried out.
In the last 10 years traffic problems in Madrid have been increased because of the high number of people that use the car and motorbike instead of public transports. However, there are a lot of people who have realized this is a big problem. Because of this, more and more people nowadays tend to use public transports as an alternative to cars or motorbikes. In this essay I intend to give possible solutions to the traffic problems and I would compare them with the solutions that Madrid's Council has already taken care of.
Firstly, from my point of view, Madrid's Council has to make conscious the people that the pollution through by cars, motorbikes and this type of transport injury gravely the planet, and if there are thousands of cars throwing pollution every day, it reports a seriously damage to the earth. To reduce this damage, in my opinion, Madrid's Council has to promote the use of public transport, which makes much less damage or none, instead of car. However this measure has been promoted in the last years, I believe it has to be improved by, for example, a limitation of the use of cars in the city, one day the even matriculate cars, and the next day the odd ones (this happens in Athens). However, there are people who think that the pollution is not a serious problem or they just ignore this problem, so they won't stop using the car because of this reason. I would argue that nowadays the pollution is one of the biggest problems of the entire world, that's why we have to make all things in our hand to fix it, and one important measure is travel by public transport as a replacement for private vehicles. 
In my opinion, some measures to reduce the traffic problems in Madrid could be, for example, establishing taxes on the entrance to the city or making those who have a more contaminating vehicle pay more taxes or increasing the cost of the gas. These three measures could reduce the use of car in a high percent. However, some people could say that increasing the taxes is unfair, because those ones who can't pay it would have more economic problems, or that increasing the prize of gas would make grow the petrol enterprises and it won't help at all because people probably won't stop using the car, so they will only create difficulties. Although these reasons can be true, I believe that it will definitely reduce in a high percent the traffic problems. 
Finally, there are some measures that Madrid's Council has already taken or are in process which I completely agree with. Some of these measures are the enlargement of the Metro, RENFE and buses lines; they have also established an AVE route amongst Madrid and Barcelona, Valladolid, Segovia... This way, people who needed to travel from one of these cities to Madrid by car, now they can do it by train, saving a big sum of money. However I feel these measures are excellent to prevent traffic problems in the city centre and in its periphery, it could be argued that these actions harm the petrol and car business. Even if it harms the petrol enterprises, I personally believe that it's a very good way of prevent traffic problems.
To conclude, in my opinion, all people should support Madrid's Council and the Spanish Government to prevent traffic problems by using the public transports and by using much less their own vehicles; that way they would save a big sum of money and contribute to make the world a better place to live in.




