Along the history, abortion has had many functions such as abortion to avoid the familiar dishonor, to avoid discovering a possible adultery or abortion if the mother's life is in danger. Nowadays, in some occidental countries abortion is officially authorized because is considered a right of women. However, abortion remains an illegal technique in most countries of the world. Although it is banned in most countries of the world, many people practice it in an illegal way, with more risks and in poorer conditions. A recent study indicates that the number of abortions produced in the last ten years has been increased in many occidental countries like Spain or the United States of America. In this essay I will discuss different points of view about abortion.
Some people think that abortion could be compared with murder because it's a medical operation which consists on avoiding the birth of a future human being. The Catholic Church has always condemned abortion, comparing it with murder because they consider that killing an unborn baby is exactly the same as killing any other person. Another possible argument is that if a choice needs to be made should be made before the conception of a child because after conception it's too late. Some people could also argue that abortion deprived of the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is generally believed that one of the most important principles of civilization is that one individual should not kill another for convenience.
Some people would argue that despite the moral or ethic connotations of abortion, it remains a medical resource. The medical sector could argue that this technique could save a woman's life when the continuation of the pregnancy means a serious risk for her life. It is reasonable to argue that abortion can be a good technique in cases like babies with grave genetic diseases. It is widely agreed that abortion could be an effective method when the mother is a girl under 18 years old, especially when the mother is between 14 and 16 or when the pregnancy has been produced by rape; that can prevent that girl of having mental or social problems. A recent study indicates that in one year, approximately 47 million women practice legal abortion.
It has been suggested that women should have the right to choose avoiding the birth of their babies. In different occidental countries, it seems that abortion has been defended by an important part of their populations. It appears that in modern countries abortion is a right given to women, and it seems to be considered nowadays as normal as any other right they have. Some of the evidence shows that in the last century abortion has become a usual technique, and it has been used as a common option of avoiding the birth of a preborn baby. Many people believe that the possibility of abortion is an important right because it shows the enormous number of different possibilities we have nowadays, and many people believe that that's what make advanced our society with respect to the third-world countries, the possibility of doing such things in a legal way, with the appropriate medical security.
It appears that in many modern countries abortion is permitted because it's considered a right of women. This right to abort encloses abortion because of medical reasons and abort based on a personal election. Abortion has been criticized especially by the Church, but it has also been defended by a big sector of the population in many countries. To close, the number of abortions in modern societies has been increased in the last century; that's why many people think that it should be controlled to reduce the number of abortions per year. 


