

Nowadays, traffic is the most important problem that small and big cities have to face. In Spain, the average of registered cars belongs to two per familiy. The Spanish city that has more problems of traffic  is the capital, Madrid. According to the statistics, Madrid has 3,000,000 of cars so this is a problem because there are too many cars for a city that is not so big. This subject can provoke stress people, in fact, there some people that complains about that everyday. The other big problem is the pollution we are sending to the atmosphere with all smokes that pipes of leak expel. So in this essay, I'm going to explain some possibles solutions to these and others problems caused by traffic  in Madrid.


From my point of view, the problems of traffic should be solved. There are too many cars that are more powerful day by day for what they contaminate more. Although there are makes of cars that are doing more ecological cars, in the atmosphere pollution and acoustics. I agree with this because and I agree with them. Who should solve this one serious problem would have be the Government  


One of the possible solutions to reduce traffic in that city is to foment the use of public transport. There are many means of transport for the whole capital and the Community, which connects both of them, and they are: Underground, trains (RENFE) and the buses. As for the underground, it is one of the most prestigious of the world, almost 90 % of the inhabitants of the Community of Madrid will have access to it. As for the train, there are 10 lines of Cercanías that connect great majority of the villages and cities of the Community and recently the AVE Madrid - Barcelona has been inaugurated. Finally as for the bus there are approximately 200 lines circulating along Madrid. If everybody used the public transport the gas emission would be reduced. For some years ago, some buses are using natural gases to circulate in Madrid, so they are contributing to the reduction of the harm gases.


Other of the possible solutions is to use the bycicle, which is an alternative means of transport. If we used the bycicle, we would reduce the acoustics pollution a lot. As a consequence people who lived near big roads or  in the centre of Madrid would not have stress because they could sleep well. Other solution related to acoustics is to make more parks and "green zones" instead of roads, as the Mayor of Madrid, Ruiz Gallardón is doing.



To sum up, we can see that there are many problems of traffic in Madrid, caused by the big number of cars registered in the city, This problems of traffic can cause other problems such as pollution. But I want to give some optimistics point of view with the solutions given, but these solutions are no effective if we are not aroused and sure to do them because I know that is more confortable going wherever you want in your own car, Unless you found a traffic jam, which is very stressful. And is very difficult to do these solutions without Government help, In my opinion, the M-30 project, which was done by the Mayor of Madrid, Ruiz Gallardón, is good because it contributes to reduce the acoustics polllution  and quality life people from Madrid will improve. 















