   Today, in most countries education is obligatory until sixteen or eighteen. In general,  education is free and it prepares young people for the future; in Spain it consists in two stages: primary education and second education (ESO).But not all are good news, a lot of boys and girls abandon school because they aren't motivated or they won't go to the university because they prefer start to work. I personally believe that education shouldn't be obligatory, I think if a boy is interested in his future, he will study, but if he isn't, he won't study and he will start to work.
   Obligatory education is different in each country, for example, Spanish obligatory education is one of the last, it's far than European rather, it's like this because in one hand, Spanish government doesn't spend enough money and each four years (or eight), in other hand, new government changes educations laws, they argue that old laws aren't efficient and for this reason they change education laws for other usually worse. In others European countries the situation is different, for example, in Finland obligatory education has been always at the core of social policies, today, the Finnish education is considered as an international example of good quality; this system help all students to be successful in their studies, the consequence is that Finland is the first country in PISA inform.     
   Nowadays it exists different arguments, some of these are the positive arguments, for example, some people believe the more years people studying are better. Obligatory education exists in majority of countries; according to Spanish government, obligatory education contributes to develop in students abilities for exercise their rights, become more tolerant, develop discipline, obtain scientist knowledge... In my opinion these arguments are consistent and I agree.
   Other type of arguments are negative arguments, they explain that education isn't really free, productive citizens pay it with their taxes, the obligatority of education until advanced ages only serve for shut in class students against their will, students that should be working. This forced education destroys the studying atmosphere between the other students. I do consider these arguments are better than the others because they are more realist, they explain the reality in classrooms.
   In conclusion, I agree with the two points of view but I consider that the second is better than the other. In my opinion obligatory education is important because it's better for young people study until sixteen or eighteen, in this way, people will be more prepared for university, it will exist more competition and more level. In the other hand I agree with negative arguments, in my view government shouldn't force youngs who don't like studying; government should help these youngs to find good jobs and avoid the obligatorily of education.  




       
