 The concept of immigration could be defined like the action and effect of settling down  or settling in a country or region coming from another. In the present situation the  migratory movements have become one of the main reasons of debate and analysis  inside the studies of the Spanish population. Traditionally Spain has been emigrants'  country but at the moment it has become a country of reception of immigrants. Many of  these immigrants arrive to our country in search of an improvement in the conditions of  life, attract for the possibilities that offers some economy sectors of the Spanish like the  agriculture, the construction, the hostelry or the domestic service; and whose offer of  positions of work is not occupied for the internal demand, due mainly to the hard  conditions that these works require. To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of immigration. In some countries  like Spain the immigration is and has been very important for the development of the  country because these immigrants have occupied positions of work that many spanish  have not wanted, and have also obtained a quite inferior salary that if be of any spanish.  This has had many advantages for many managers that hire foreigners since in this way  instead of having to pay a base salary by spanish, they hire to immigrants' group that  they carry out that type of work to a small salary and in this way  they could be hired  more personal to a very low price. The zones of which they proceed most of these  immigrants they are of the north of África (Morocco and Argelia), next of american- iberian countries (Colombia, Ecuador and Dominican Republica), of countries of the  east from Europe (Rumania, Ucrania and Poland), and finally of some Asian countries  (China), what it coincides with the zones of which they proceed the most important  groups of national of third countries that reside in Spanish territory. They concentrate  mainly in the agricultural zones that go from Almería until Cataluña going by the   valencia region also we have the strong concentrations of immigrants from Barcelona  and Madrid and their outskirts (with 148.000 150,000 respectively). But the truth is that  could see them in many Spanish city, being very visible in summer selling scrap in the  tourist zones. Another characteristic feature that immigrants contribute us is the  possibility of learning their cultures and beliefs. For example the muslims have a very  different religion to ours that it is the islam; and some concrete customs like go to Meca  at least once in a lifetime, don't eat meat or use the right hand in order to eat and the left  for the personal cleanliness. Some arguments against immigration are maintained by people that think each one has  to be in their country. Some of the reasons for which much people are against the  immigration in our country is because they think that some foreigners receive more  economic helps that any another person that lives in their own country, and for this, they  believe that it is unjust lend first help to the foreigners that to the people that live in  their country. Where more is observed all this is in the education, mainly to the hour of  requesting scholarships of help for the books of text for the students where according to  the last carried out study are observed that they are accepted more scholarships for the  foreigners that for the spanishs. Also many foreigners bring much violence to Spain  mainly in those situations where they take place robberies, murders and violations.  According to the newspaper "El País" the 60% of the crimes carry out foreign people  where they are included crimes like the traffic of drugs and the violations. All this  makes that most of the people begin to be afraid of them, on the whole women that in  38% they are the more affected. As I unite of the carried out studies , the most  dangerous are the moorishs, ecuadorians and peruvians that they make that the society  is frightened, although this doesn't mean that the spanishs don't carry out no violent act  against the society. In conclusion, I think that all people are equal, don't matter the color of the skin, the  place of origin, the culture or the beliefs that we have, for that reason we have to  attempt live all together and avoid any type of confrontation. Also the immigration  contributes to the increase of the natality, what has caused that the Spanish population is  rejuvenated because they have more children than us for the several mentality. 
