  The topic of the homosexuality is one of the more controversial in the humanity, mainly  that of people of the same sex. In  1978 in our country to the homosexuals entered them  in the jails like criminals and in the psychiatric like overturned. This law practically new  that it has caused a great change in our country, because it has broken with the  tradition.The first legal marriage in Spain between gays was in Tres Cantos where  Emilio and Carlos legalized their situation after 30 years of relationship of couple.  Other question very important in Spain is if these people can adopt children, because the  homosexuals are people of the same sex and many people think that they aren't very  capable for look after children. All this has caused a big problem because the society is  very confused as they can't  know if the homosexuals will can bring their children up  well.   On the one hand, there are  people that are agree with law because they think that  homosexuals can educate how heterosexuals.The civic initiative CONVIVE expressed  their satisfaction for the approval of this law in the Congress that will permit the  marriage between people of the same sex. It is a legal indispensable equality in order to  reach a social equality. It is a great step in order to build a more open society and  tolerant. Since the marriages between people of the same sex have been legalized, the  debate has opened up on if these people could adopt or not. The cases of 28 families have been studied: 15 of them compound for mothers lesbians  with children of previous heterosexual relationships; 10 for mothers lesbians or fathers  gays that they had their children for adoption or for artificial insemination and 3 in  which the parents didn't have the custody but they lived together with the children. The respect and the tolerance are central values of the education in these families. They  are accustomed to have high levels of affection and communication and levels generally  first floor of conflict.    On the other hand, there are people that are against that the homosexuals could get  married and adopt children, because they believe that they could not provide them the  same education that a father and a mother. Another important paper against the marriage  homosexual is the church that maintains that the marriage should make between a man  and a woman. Castell, doctor in medicine and psychiatryst, it is one of the voices that  they are against that it approved this type of adoption and he says: <Q>   In conclusion, I think that the people can married with who they want, and they have the  same rights than heterosexuals. They can adopt children because they provide a good  education for their. They get provide the children some very important values that  maybe many heterosexual don't transmit their children like the respect to the others, the  love, the education or the use of the dialogue in order to solve any type of problem  instead of finishing faced.                                           
