Currently, it is said that traffic jams are increasing day by dayin motorways of Madrid . This huge quantity of vehicles in the main roads at rush hours is a very common event in the city of Madrid and nearby areas.
The goal of this essay is to explain the possible causes and solutions of this daily fact.
One the one hand Direccion General de Trafico  says that there are two main issues which provoke  traffic congestion:lots of commuters'cars in the same area at the same time and car crash usually stop the traffic.
On the other hand , Real Automovil Club de España thinks that a medley of bad conditions of highways and bad weather ( rain , snow , wind ) could be the most important reasons of this problem.
This essay provides information which could be took into account in order to  solve one of the motorist's main worries.

To begin with , waste of time seemed to be an effect of  traffic. In the light of the results of a recent survey made by several companies , workers excuse their procrastionation when they go to their jobs by telling that traffic was horrible that day.In my opinion, this could be solved by using transport company.Nowadays , Madrid has one of the best  public transports in the world so it would be good that we make use of them. 

 Also, air pollution is a serious problem since a lot of cars staying in the same place for a long time produces a toxic atmosphere .I would recommend , therefore , the use of bycicles instead of cars and share them with work mates.The former is a good way of saving money in fuel and having a good talk while you are waiting , it is a pity to see  a lot of empty cars consuming litres of gasoline.Moreover , this energy source is limited so we could start thinking of avoing a misuse.

Another aftermath of being in a collapsed way is the stress  that it produces because of  noise of horns and endless waitings.My advice is to set out  from departure place earlier so as to have extra  time to spend it  in the way to the final destination. Besides , listening any chill out music during the travel is highly suggested. There a many therapies which are base on listening sounds from the nature as running water , songs of budist monks or a bird's singing.

Apart from cars are comfortable method of  transport, we have to bear in mind the disadvantages like health problems , enviroment damaged , accidents , waste of money etc. It is said that we spent more hours inside our cars than together with our families and it is not a proper sign of a good quality of life.
In conclusion , all the things told in this essay  should make us think that we would better use a little bit less our private vehicles.
According to my point of view, most of people who go to the centre of  Madrid by their private car  are selfish and  don't care if alternative  ways  of  transport contribute to coexistence among citizens and balance of the enviroment .
Using of cars has become a dependence and every dependeces make us weaker.  

