

The war on terrorism is used to justify a wide variety of actions in many countries as a result of these there are emerging different opinions if the world is a safer place to live in. In Afghanistan was ruled from Al Qaeda government one of the principle reference as terrorism people and some of the main develop countries started a war against them at the time.  In the United States specifically refers to the perpetual global interventionism for the war in Iraq. In Israel it is used to justify bombing apartment buildings in Gaza. In Russia it has been used to justify oppressive measures in Chechnya, etc. War on terror was frequently used by President Bush, leading some to observe that it is impossible to carry out what is defined as "war" against an abstract noun. In this essay I will try to consider different opinions about the issue if it is the world a safer place as a result of the war against terrorism.

To begin with some opponent opinions against war as Gareth Evans, former Australian foreign minister, said that "The unhappy truth is that the net result of the war on terror, so far at least, has been more war and more terror". A United Nations commissioned study the Arab Human Development Report in 2003, finds that the "war on terrorism" has actually pushed radical political groups to seek change by violence. For instance the war against Iraq has been put out a great controversial opinions even between political government in the EEUU as a result of the fact that many soldiers and even more civil population from Iraq have died and continues dying without   see a properly ended for it, even with further more consequences to the economic and human right abuses that has came out in the news paper lately and even President Bush has admitted there have been some errors in the war policy and Senate Majority  Leader Harry Reid said "that war in Iraq is lost" . In Afghanistan still the confrontation and some military forces remain there. What's more in Israel still the confrontation with Palestinians people without seen an ending too.  It seems that war on terrorism could actually creating more terrorism, not reducing it, so as a result of this world might not seem actually a better save place than before.

Terrorism seems for many people a threaten fact that has to fight to, so war can be a reasonable way to do it. As a reaction to the events of September 11, 2001, The Pentagon from EEUU has assigned the task of tracking down and eliminating Osama bin Landen as a head symbol of terrorism and consequently to all the government supporting it. One of the main significant head of it was Saddam Hussein. Saddam Hussein could be considered one of worse dictatorial president at that time, many crimes and missing people from Kurdistan area were attributed to him. Some people thought at the time that war was the only solution to knock down the government even if the cost could be as greater as a war can be.  Terrorism from Hamas and Hezbollah could be seen from Israel the reason to continue the military confrontation with Palestinian government. In Afghanistan has to consider the women's rights and the fanatic ideas from Al Qaeda a big reason to fight against them preventing to spread   this ideas to other countries as has been occurred lately. It seems that it is difficult to find a pacific solution for these big problems because in general is difficult to get an agreement from both sides. So war could be one of the principal ways to eradicate some problems to find a better world to live in.

Finally many people think that prevention to terrorism in the future must be not only a matter of fighting but a matter of intelligent security to make the world better place to live in. To analysis complex political scenes by the government system, experts from psychology of the violence want to find better ways and more flexibility from the protocol actually existing for preventing terrorism. For example before September 11, some expert analyzing terrorism in EEUU (CIA, FBI, etc.) could not to prevent this king of attack. Seen this fact, that the analysis of terrorism public and private by the intelligent system could not prevent this attack we could think what it is the main obstacle to it. The expert opinion of this analysis thinks that they couldn't prevent because of their politicization and the incapacity to process uncertainty scenes properly to see this complex behavior. So some expert think there are a few analyst to be qualify to anticipate probable future prediction and very few polity ready to understand the inform of this analysis.  Consequently the target will be to anticipate with these actions preventions and actions more effectively to fight terrorism.

To conclude, this essay has considered some of the main opinions about if it is the world a safer place as a result of the war. First we have seen the opinion against of the war. Secondly the opinion in favor of and finally the opinion that prevention of terrorism could be the best option for it. So then to get a safer world be a matter from all governments to make proper decisions in order to find better solutions to prevent terrorism. 
