
Population keeps growing in Madrid as a result of the immigrants coming to the capital of Spain. This continuous arrival of immigrants, being either foreign or national, means a lot of problems in the city regarding health, employment, education and of course, traffic. Although traffic seems to be a secondary problem among the rest, it is a serious issue that affects Madrid daily, increasing not only production costs due to delays but pollution and population unhappiness. That is why in this essay I'm going to discuss what possible solutions I think there are to reduce the traffic problems that are collapsing Madrid in a daily basis. 

The first solution I will propose is to limit the traffic of private vehicles in the smallest streets at Madrid's centre. In my opinion, traffic jams at the centre of big cities are caused by small streets with enormous amounts of cars. As the centre of Madrid is all configured by this kind of small streets, I feel that if they are restricted to pedestrians and public transport, the centre will be released of a big amount of cars. This limit of private vehicles may be a high unpopular measure if it is based on taxing, but I believe that an hour-regulated system in where rush hours were forbidden for private road traffic will be enough to improve Madrid's situation.
 
Next, I believe that Madrid Community's Government should spend a lot more money into the underground and bus nets, which are essential to reduce traffic in the Community as a whole.  Public transport is often overcrowded at rush hour and it does not reach to all of the Community; however, I feel that if it's improved with extended timetables and more trains and buses, a lot of people will resort to using the public transport due to its multiple advantages: It is quick, comfortable and it does not require a parking.  Furthermore, I'm sure this measure would be popular because as public transport uses renewable energies to work, it would help to take care of the planet. 
   
Another solution would be encouraging the use of bicycles in the city, as other countries are already doing all across Europe. In cities like Wien, Amsterdam or even Barcelona there is a service of public bicycles that consists of low cost renting of bikes at bicycle stops. Usually, these stops also have room for a bunch of private bikes, which can be parked there as well. Although in my opinion this will help reduce not only traffic but contamination as well, it is true that it will need a strong initial inversion and time for restructuring the city to add bike lanes for the cyclists to travel safely. However, I think this solution is fairly economical and healthier for short distances at the centre of the city. 

As for the traffic problems at the outskirts' highways, I believe that one possible solution would be building new roads around Madrid with better access, which would communicate all the dormitory towns among themselves and the rest of the city. Some people may argue that this is not an easy solution, because the costs of building a highway of this size are huge and it needs t be financed somehow; if the money comes from the Community of Madrid or the central Government, it would mean that it will come from all taxpayers. However, in my opinion what the Spanish's Government should do is build more payment highways. It is true that everybody must pay to use them but I strongly feel that if the payment is not excessive a great deal of people would use them to avoid massive traffic jams.  

To sum up, there are some solutions that from my point of view can help improving the problem of heavy traffic in Madrid. Regulating private vehicles and encouraging the use of public transport or bikes would help to relieve the traffic jams in the centre of the city and as for the outskirts; the building of new private roads around Madrid will help clearing the entrances and exits of the city. Anyway I do not think that solving the problem of traffic in a city as big as Madrid is an easy task, but I feel that it needs to be worked out if Madrid's population wants to be happier and healthier, and on schedule.  

