More than two decades have elapsed since abortion was decriminalised in Spain. Over the last years, the main political parties have appeared reluctant to stir a national debate on this highly controversial issue. However, it was put again onto the political agenda shortly before the last general election when the private abortion clinics went on a week-long strike. The clinics, which performed almost 98% of more than 100,000 terminations carried out in 2006 according to the data released by the Ministry of Health, called for changes to the law to make it more objective, after having been accused of performing illegal abortions by pro-life religious groups. In this essay I intend to present and analyse the main existing viewpoints on abortion these days.

To begin with, opponents to abortion, which include the Catholic Church and mostly religious groups which call themselves pro-life, maintain that abortion is always morally wrong as it breaches the foetus' right to life. Their view is mainly based on two arguments: the sanctity of the human right to life and the beginning of human life at conception. First, they state the absolute value of human life. This involves that no greater right can be claimed and that the right to life must always prevail over any other right in conflict in all circumstances. Second, pro-life campaigners argue that the foetus becomes a human being since the very first moment that a woman's egg is fertilised by male sperm because at that point it contains the full genetic code to develop into a separate and unique human being. Consequently, on the grounds of both these arguments they assert that voluntarily taking the life of the unborn child must always be considered as killing an innocent human being and, therefore, all forms of abortion should be outlawed.  

The abovementioned argument of human life's absolute value may appeal to many people because the right to life may be seen as a condition for the enjoyment of any other human right. Nevertheless, some moral philosophers would argue that biological life, which begins with fertilisation, has not value by itself but what gives human life its value is ourselves-consciousness which the foetus lacks. Moreover, the defence of a total ban on abortion could be seen as an unrealistic perspective, since this would force women who want to terminate an unwanted pregnancy to resort to back-street abortions risking death or serious injury. In fact, according to the WHO's estimations, one out of three of maternal deaths are to be blamed on complications arising from illegal abortions.

On the other hand, the so-called pro-choice groups claim that women must be always given the right to choose whether to continue or terminate their pregnancy with no external interference. First, they consider the foetus as a part of a woman's body with no individual value separated from the woman's life, and so forcing a woman to have a baby against her willing would breach her right to decide on her own body and would damage her physical integrity. Although this point appears to be persuasive, nowadays many people would agree that some value must be placed on the foetus by itself in the light of the latest medical advances that have allowed an increased visibility of the foetus as well as an increased viability of premature babies born in very early stages of pregnancy. 
In addition, pro-abortion campaigners argue that the recognition of women's right to have an abortion is a necessary step towards the achievement of full equality between the sexes. They assert that maternity has an enormous impact on women's life as they are traditionally expected to bear most of the load of caring for children. However, it could be argued that legalising abortion would be merely a way of allowing society and public authorities to evade their responsibility for helping those women who want to become mothers, and that equality could be promoted by taking measures such as providing affordable nurseries or encouraging a better work-life balance and greater men's involvement in sharing the burden of raising children.

Finally, it appears that many people hold intermediate views on abortion, trying to reach a reasonable compromise between the foetus' rights and those of the woman, as it is shown to a different extent by most European countries' abortion rules. This is the case of the Spanish current legislation, which recognises the woman's right to have an abortion under certain circumstances. First, an unwanted pregnancy can be terminated on request within the first twelve weeks after conception when it is a result of rape. It seems reasonable to argue that if a woman in this situation were forced to have the child, it could inflict an irreparable psychological harm on her. 

Next, abortion is also allowed when the child might suffer from severe physical or mental defects and it is performed within the first 22 weeks. This point seems rather convincing since the child's quality of life would be seriously damaged as a result of his disability. However, it could be considered offensive to many disabled people which would say that their lives are as worth living as the lives of 'normal' people. Finally, termination is permitted under the current law in case of serious risk to the woman's physical or mental health with no time limit. This seems a logical argument, because most people would argue that the woman's right to life should be given priority over the unborn child's rights. Nevertheless, as regards to mental health, if interpreted too broadly, this condition might allow late abortions in the absence of a major risk.

Other possible mid-point view, which is shared by some European countries' abortion laws, is that abortion should be made easily accessible on demand during the early stages of gestation whereas late abortions would be subject to much stricter conditions. Although this argument seems to be persuasive since it would be more respectful with women's right to choose, it may have certain weaknesses as abortion could be regarded as a family planning method instead of as an ultimate solution to unwanted pregnancies which would be advisable to avoid.    

To conclude, this essay has dealt with some of the main opinions about abortion which have been described in terms of the way they try to solve the conflict at the heart of the debate between the foetus' rights and those of the woman. Pro-life groups state that the foetus' right to life must always prevail, whereas pro-choice groups claim that the women's right to choose must always be given priority on the basis of their right to decide on their own bodies and as a means to reach equality with men. In addition, many people feel that abortion should be allowed providing that certain conditions are met such as rape, serious risk to the mother's life or health, child's severe disability or pregnancy in the early stages. As it seems to result from the analysis of the different viewpoints, no solution appears to be completely satisfactory and many people's view is that the dilemma should be tried to be avoided. With this purpose, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has recently invited the member states to improve their population's sexual education and ensure women's affordable access to a broad range of contraception methods.

