Many people living or working in Madrid would agree that traffic congestion has increased significantly in recent years. In fact, over the last decade the number of motor vehicles registered in Madrid increased by 30% reaching 1.8 million cars in 2007, according to Madrid's local government data. This figure rises to 2.5 million when taking into account commuters living in Madrid's suburbs who use their cars to get into the city centre on working days. This growth in car usage puts increasing pressure on the road capacity, on the environment and on the citizens' quality of life, causing delays, stress, noise and air pollution -it is estimated that traffic fumes in Madrid account for about 75% of nitrogen oxide and suspended particles emissions-. In this essay I will present some measures which I personally feel might contribute to tackle the traffic problems in Madrid effectively. In my view, those should include the introduction of car-sharing and road pricing schemes, increased investment in public transportation and the adoption of measures to actively encourage cycling as a real alternative to cars for travelling around the city.
To begin with, I would say that car-share lanes might help reduce traffic congestion as they would promote more efficient use of road network. Several surveys have estimated that four out of five cars driving into cities at rush hour have only one person in them. Consequently, I feel that the current road capacity is underused and a better use would be needed rather than motorway widening which usually leads to a further rise in traffic levels. On the other hand, opponents of car-sharing would claim that it does not work because it is difficult for commuters to find someone suitable to share lifts with and, in addition, High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes are difficult to enforce since it is easy to trick cameras using dummies or large dogs. However, my opinion is that both these difficulties may be overcome by encouraging employers to help match workers who live in the same area and the introduction of new technology road cameras, already being tested in Britain, which can count car occupants by detecting blood and water content.
Next, in my opinion, getting around by car has an enormous cost in terms of the harmful effects that it causes. Because of this, I am of the view that car drivers should be made aware of it and be willing to pay for it. This could be achieved by the introduction of a road pricing scheme which would charge motorists getting into central Madrid, specially the owners of the most polluting vehicles. A congestion charge system was first introduced in central London in 2003 and it is claimed to have reduced traffic in the area by 21% over the last five years, according to Transport for London. However, it could be argued that such a measure could be unfair to poor people, but, in my view, pricing is the mechanism used by the market to achieve optimal levels of consumption for each good and it doesn't have to be necessarily unfair providing that those who cannot afford to pay for it may opt for reliable, affordable, high-quality public transport.
Some people would argue that a great deal of money has already been invested in public transportation, particularly in the metro, by Madrid's local and regional authorities. In fact, the metro network has been extensively enlarged in recent years with the positive effect of more people living near a metro station. However, personally speaking, I feel that this is not enough to persuade people to get out of their cars and take the metro. It appears to me that frequency should be improved in order to avoid overcrowded trains at peak hours and more money should be budgeted for maintenance so as to make the service more reliable by achieving a decrease in the incidence of trains' breakdowns and electricity supply failures. Otherwise, commuters are likely to continue finding less stressful using their cars, where at least they can enjoy their own private space, no matter they end up stuck in a traffic jam.
Furthermore, I strongly believe that cycling ought to be promoted and recognised as an equal status public mode of transport by local policymakers. First, it is the most environment-friendly one as it doesn't pollute at all. Next, it is a very cheap means of transport which most people can afford compared to cars. Moreover, according to Madrid municipality four out of ten car journeys in Madrid are less than five kilometres, a distance that's easily cycled. In addition, it would quite suitable for the narrow streets of Madrid's city center where co-existence with cars becomes extremely annoying for pedestrians. 
However, it is often said that there is not a real cycling culture in Madrid, what I do not personally believe to be the case as shown by initiatives to promote cycling as "the bicycle party", consisting in closing Madrid's city centre to car traffic for some hours one Sunday a year, which has proved very successful among locals with increasing numbers of people taking part in it every year. In addition, the experience of other cities such as Barcelona or Paris which have established an extensive cycle network and have set up highly successful low-cost bike-hire schemes proves that if a well-planned infrastructure is designed allowing cyclists to get about the city safely, commuters will tend to use it for their daily journeys.  Although some people would claim that Madrid's streets' ups and downs might deter many people from pedalling across the city, I personally feel that even though Madrid may not be as flat a city as Copenhagen or Amsterdam  - considered to be the cycling capital cities-, Madrid's by far better weather can compensate for that and, in addition, everyone could plan in advance the cycle routes which best suit their physical strength. 
To sum up, this paper has dealt with some policies which I would maintain that might be implemented to ease traffic problems in Madrid. Firstly, two measures  -  the introduction of car-share lanes and a congestion charge scheme- have been proposed as ways to reduce car usage and make it more efficient. Secondly, it has been argued that those initiatives should be accompanied by greater investment in public modes of transport, namely the metro, and the promotion of cycling as a real alternative means for travelling across the city. However, I personally feel that no sustainable solution to traffic problems will be attained until a vast majority of Madrid's residents be fully aware of the problem's scale and decide to take action by changing their commuting habits.
