
The attack of marijuana since its origins early in this century, has 
been a cultural war. Nowadays the number of people that consume 
this drug has increased as it is easier to find and also cheaper. This 
essay will contrast some of the points for and against marijuana's 
legalization.
One of the main arguments in favour will have to be the medical use 
of marijuana, which sends a signal that its use is acceptable. Because 
of this, marijuana cannot be compared to other drugs such as cocaine 
and heroine as it involves less dangerous effects on our body. It is 
apparently true that cannabis hasn't been the cause of any human 
death yet, differing from tobacco which is beginning to be the nations 
leading cause of death. It seems that obtaining and growing 
marijuana present no difficulty these days, as you can find shops 
where you can buy magazines and seeds for a very reasonable price.
It is necessary to mention Holland, being the only country where you 
find marijuana consume legal.
Even though these viewpoints appear to be persuasive, they all have 
their certain weaknesses as we all know. The most important point 
against this drug would have to be that the regular use of marijuana 
causes dependence. However, it depends on the amount and the 
frequency that the user consumes this drug as it contains THC which 
damages the brain. In addition to this and according to the IOM 
(institute of medicine) THC causes vomits, appetite stimulation and 
nausea. Some researches say that smoking three joints is the same as 
smoking twenty cigarettes. It is apparently true that making 
possession of marijuana a criminal offence has only increased crime 
rate, and as a result of this many courts have to deal with marijuana 
cases instead of real ones that are more important. It is believed that 
smoking marijuana is another addiction that we have to fight against, 
just like tobacco.
Marijuana should be used in special circumstances such as medical 
uses, on people who suffer from cancer (a very painful disease), AIDS   
or epileptics. That way it won't attempt against public health and non 
smokers won't feel affected by this drug. As I said before marijuana 
hasn't been the cause of any human death yet, and many people 
around the world consume this drug. It should be considered a 
criminal offence because it won't do right for our society: occupies 
court cases and crime increases.
In conclusion, marijuana is a less dangerous drug to consume 
nowadays but it is the centre of debates. The legalization of 
marijuana will continue being a discussion in society as long as there 
will be smokers and non smokers. It will continue serving for medical 
uses, but some countries are debating this as it involves it's consume. 
Even though there will always be marijuana smokers it is and will 
always be a drug, and the THC it contains will endanger their brains 
as they continue to smoke.


