Homosexuals are slowly being accepted in present society, as they are 
becoming a bigger group every year. For many years, homosexual people 
were ashamed of their sexual tendencies as a result of the way people used 
to react or the way they thought about them. Nowadays gay people are 
fighting for their rights so that they can be treated like everyone else in 
society, and not like a disease you have to run away from. The following 
essay is focused in two of the most discussed points corresponding to 
homosexuals, which are marriage and adoption.
To start with and as we all know, in most countries the marriage between 
gay couples hasn't been approved yet and homosexuals are trying to 
abolish this prohibition. Homosexual couples that want to get married are 
facing a difficult time in some parts of the world these days. I personally 
think that everyone should be free to marry anyone they want to, as it is 
your personal choice. Despite this, not everyone feels the same for it 
wouldn't be the traditional ceremony were men and woman unite. A clear 
example of opposition would be the Christian church that has recently 
announced that they wont admit gay priests. Nevertheless, I strongly think 
that gay couples marriages will soon be approved in almost every country, 
as it has already been done in some parts of the EE.UU, and recently in 
Spain.
Even though homosexuals are being more respected by the people of 
society, it will always be an anti-conventional relation between two people. 
As we all know, two men or two women are unable to procreate in order to 
keeping the specie alive and this is the main cause for their marriage 
disapproval. However gay people are conscious of having feelings for 
people of their same sex, but they can't do anything about it. Consequently 
and as long as gay people exist they will always be in some way different 
from most people in society, but they will be fighting against this thought 
as they are doing now.
To continue with, we should all be concerned about the high number of 
children that live in adoption centers and could spend the rest of their lives 
there. Homosexual couples have claimed for their right to adopt children as 
every couple can do, but it's something that would take much longer to 
obtain, as we would be dealing with a kids life. However, if an orphan child 
was given to a gay couple he wouldn't be in any kind of dangerous 
condition, because the couple should have passed a deep inspection an the 
approval of the center. I personally think that they should be given the 
chance of raising a child, and especially these children who are in need of 
someone that watches after them.
People who are against gay couples are totally against the fact that they 
could be able to adopt a child. There are also some people who respect their 
sexual preferences but are against their right for adoption. Including a third 
person in a gay couples life is something that needs more deep thinking, 
and especially because it would be a small kid. Against this opinion, I will 
have to say that the most important thing would have to be what's best for 
the child and the fact that he or she is safe and loved.
To sum up, gay couples are slowly being recognized in society, and even 
though they aren't able of getting married in every country they have 
already succeeded in a few such us Spain. Dealing with adoption, they will 
have to keep fighting so that they could raise a child like any heterosexual 
couple in the world. I personally respect their sexual preferences and I'm in 
favor of gay marriages as anyone is free to live their lives as they want to. 
In terms of adoption, I strongly believe that orphan children need to be 
raised by someone who loves them and takes good care of them despite of 
& them being a gay couple.


