
In our present society there are many attitudes towards abortion depending on the moral or legal viewpoints of the people. An abortion is the removal or expulsion of an embryo or fetus from the uterus, resulting in or caused by its death. Induced abortion is the removal or expulsion of an embryo or fetus bymedical, surgical, or other means at any point during human pregnancy for therapeutic or elective reasons. The approximate number of induced abortions performed worldwide in 2003 was 42 million. In this essay I am going to show some different viewpoints that people use concerning abortion. 
First, from the political viewpoint, in politics, rights are the protections and privileges legally granted to citizens by the government. Regarding abortion law, the political debate usually surrounds a right to privacy, and when or how a government may regulate abortion. There is abundant debate regarding the extent of abortion regulation. Some argue that it should be illegal for governments to regulate abortion any more than other medical practices. Some argue that governments should be permitted to regulate abortions after the 20th week, viability, or the second trimester. Some want to regulate all abortions, starting from conception. 
Second from the privacy viewpoint, related to abortion, privacy is defined as the ability of a woman to "decide what happens to her own body". While governments are allowed to invade the privacy of their citizens in some cases, they are expected to protect privacy in all cases lacking acompellins state interest. Abortions are recognized as being private, but are criticized for involving the death of a human organism. Critics argue that abortion regulation is valid because the state interest in protecting prenatal life is compelling. Defenders argue either that there is no state interest in regulating abortion, or that the woman's privacy is a more compelling interest. 
Third from the church and state viewpoint, the separation of both of them is an oft-debated topic in connection with abortion. Many churches have official positions on abortion, and there is a correlation between these official positions and the personal positions of adherents. Religious influences are closely tied to ethical opposition to abortion. Some argue that efforts to codify official church positions are an illegal or unjust breach of separation, either because those positions are innately religious or on the basis that separation of church and state should include separation of religion from politics. Some argue that restrictions on abortion are not a breach of separation, since the pro-life position can be defended by appeal to secular ethical arguments. It has also been argued that churches have an important role to play in political life, since in some communities they are an important source of information, resources, and incentives to engage in the political process. 
Finally from an ethic viewpoint some argue that abortion is morally wrong on the basis that a fetus is an innocenthuman being. Others reject this position by drawing a distinction between human being and human person, arguing that while the fetus is innocent and biologically human, it is not a person with a right to life. Critics of this position typically argue that the proposed criteria for personhood would disqualify two classes of born human beings reversibly comatose patients, and human infants from having a right to life, since they, like fetuses, are not self-conscious, do not communicate, and so on. Defenders of the proposed criteria may respond that the reversibly comatose do satisfy the relevant criteria because they "retain all their unconscious mental states". 
So then, there are many arguments concerting abortion, the regulation of abortion from a political viewpoint, the woman's privacy from the citizens privacy viewpoint, the ethical opposition to abortion from the religious viewpoint, morally argues from the ethic viewpoint and others.On balance, the two main groups involved in the abortion debate are the pro-choice movement, which generally supports access to abortion and regards it as morally permissible, and the pro-life movement, which generally opposes access to abortion and regards it as morally wrong. Each movement has, with varying results, sought to influence public opinion and to attain legal support for its position. 
