Nowadays the Spanish society seem to be affected by a lot of problems, it might be because we are many people living in our country and we are very different, so it is difficult to get on along with each other. In this essay I intent to consider the ones that affect me in higher ways, which are racism and the fear produced by inmigration, the problems of young people when they have to buy a house and terrorism.

Racism and fear has long been a problem. This seems to be because there are two kind of foreigner, the kind of people who come to Spain to try to make their life better in an honest way and the kind of foreigners who come to Spain to try to make their life better in a wrong way by stealing and if it is neccesary by assassinating. However it could be argued that foreigners do not come to try to make their life better, they just come to Spain in order to earn money. I would argue that these people come here to try to improve their lifes, but sometimes they do not do it in a correct way and it generates racism. 

Some of the evidence shows that another reason of racism is the lack of knowledge of a different culture, this is because foreigners try to preserve their customes even if they are different than ours, some people feel that foreigners try to accept ours habits but in any case, it seems to me that they do not as women Muslims for example keep covering their heads. The government should make new laws about immigration in order to avoid racism and the fear that it produces.

Other of the greatest problems in my view in the current society is the inaccessibility housing. It is an evidence that the house's price have increased a lot so a normal salary can allow it. Young people can not accede to a mortgage because they should pay more than they earn. Of course it is possible to argue that these young people will have their salaries increased in the future so they will be able to afford these prices. But today the fifty percent of the young people in Spain live in theirs parents house. 

It seems that one of the reasons of this situation is the existing speculation in the entire real state sector. Many investors dedicate their savings to buy different houses waiting to earn lot money by sailing those months afterwards. The low price in the mortgage in the last years has produced that many houses had been sold and some people had been enriched. Now, the mortgages are growing up and the people who have bought a house with a high price but with a low mortgage are submitted in a very bad situation, because now they must pay a great quantity of interests. The government should solve this problem by stopping the speculation and going to normal prices in the housing so young people would be able to buy a house.

Finally the third problem that most affect me is the terrorism. Some of the evidences show that Spanish's people life has been changed since the terrorism attack of the eleven of March three years ago. There are no words that can describe what we felt. The main reason is that the people who did will never come back, second is that it was too bloody and the third reason and the most important is that we still don't I understand why, some people may argue that there are political reasons but in my opinion there is no reason for this kind of behaviour. We have had this problem for a long time and it seems very difficult to be solved. Different government have tried to solve it but if some people don't change their minds it appears that it will never end.

So then, we have seen that there are several problems that affect the Spanish society today, the ones that I have described are the ones that affect me in a higher way racism, inaccessibility housing and terrorism. On the basis of this, it would seem a good idea if the government study these problems, make new laws and in the Spanish society instead of thinking on their selves most of the time.
