Very few issues elicit as much worldwide controversy, debate and
concern as does abortion. The purpose of this essay is to give an
account of the main aspects concerning the ethical debate on whether
induced abortion is right or wrong. Accordingly, and given the limited
scope of this essay, I will not deal here with the various political
aspects surrounding the debate, but will focus instead on the ethical
arguments most commonly put forward in order to argue that induced
abortion, that is, the removal or expulsion of an embryo by a number
of different methods at any point during human pregnancy for
therapeutic or elective reasons, is ethically acceptable or not. These
different arguments can be referred to as personhood, deprivation, and
bodily rights.

Although all parties agree that an embryo is a human being, there is
some debate on whether it is also a human person with a right to life.
Those who consider that it is not a human person have established
several markers in order to define personhood, such as consciousness,
the ability to communicate and self-awareness, and have concluded that
since an embryo does not meet these criteria, it does not have a right
to life, and consequently, induced abortion can be deemed ethically
right. At the other end of this particular part of the debate, critics
of this position have often argued that these markers are met by
certain groups of human beings such as comatose patients and infants,
whose personhood and right to life are not disputed.

A second argument that has been proposed is concerned with the fact
that induced abortion deprives the foetus of a valuable future, and is
accordingly referred to as the deprivation aspect. Supporters of this
argument to deem induced abortion morally wrong argue that one of the
reasons why the killing of an adult would be morally wrong would
reside in the depravation of his or her future, and that since this
could also be applied to an embryo, induced abortion could be likened
to killing an adult human being, and consequently morally wrong. In
opposition to this view, some have argued that there are very few
psychological connections between the foetus and the future adult,
which in their opinion invalidates the aforementioned claim.

The third and final aspect of the debate we will deal with has to do
with arguments referring to a woman's right to control her own body.
In this case, all arguments have to do with the question of whose
rights come first, those of the woman or those of the embryo. Those
who give primacy to the foetus's rights have put forward several
reasons for this, such as the responsibility derived from the fact
that the woman had a choice not to get pregnant which she ignored (at
least in the case of pregnancy resulting from voluntary intercourse).
At the other end of the spectrum, those who give priority to the
woman's rights consider that responsibility cannot be likened to
rights and can be deemed irrelevant as a result.

The main arguments within the ethical debate on whether induced
abortion is right or wrong can be summarised as follows: first, those
that have to do with the nature of the human person as holder of the
right to life; secondly, those concerning the connection between the
embryo and the future it is deprived of as a consequence of the
induced abortion; and finally, those related to the primacy of rights
of women over embryos. As we have seen, this debate is multifaceted
and complicated by further philosophical issues, which likely
signifies that it will continue being highly controversial for quite
some time.
