There is very little doubt that excessive road traffic is one of the main challenges that Madrid is facing. More than one million cars cross the roads of this city everyday. The purpose of this essay is to give a personal account on some of the possible ways to reduce the problems derived from traffic in a socially responsible manner. The solutions proposed below are meant to be socially responsible since they take into account two requisites: first, they are based on an equal opportunities requirement, and secondly, they are focused on traffic demand reduction rather than on increasing the supply, since I believe that increasing the supply is no more than a short term solution given that it is invariably followed by a corresponding increase in the demand. Accordingly, I will discuss solutions based on rationing, utility cycling, and public campaigning for traffic reduction. 

In any aspect of life, rationing is a non-discriminating manner of sorting social problems. In my view, rationing the use of cars in cities, and in Madrid in particular, could prove an effective and socially acceptable way to reduce traffic congestion. This system is already successfully in use in cities like Sao Paulo and Athens, where each vehicle is forbidden to use the roads during the rush hour during one day of the week. Rationing in these cities is being implemented with base on the number plates of the vehicles, which is obviously more socially acceptable than a system such as the congestion pricing implemented in Singapore or London. Although critics of this idea point out that it can still be discriminating since the wealthier drivers could get a second car, I believe that this problem could be easily sorted out by using the driving license numbers instead of license plate numbers as the way to determine which day of the week the drivers are forbidden to use their cars. 

A second way of tackling the traffic dilemma that I consider both realistic and socially acceptable is to encourage utility cycling. Its advantages in terms of reducing problems associated with road traffic like congestion, pollution, and noise are rather straightforward, and it seems unnecessary to list them; rather, the question in this case has more to do with its viability, which can be more disputed. Criticism to this solution tends to ignore the fact that, as cities like Beijing and Amsterdam have to a large demonstrated, city planning can turn the bicycle into the main protagonist of commuting. Other criticism has to do with the limited access of the aged to this particular means of transport, however, it seems to me that this would be a very limited problem, and that the advantages for this particular segment of the population resulting from utility cycling mentioned above, would doubtlessly outweigh this particular disadvantage.  

Finally, I would like to put forward what I believe to be the easiest way to reduce the traffic demand and consequently reduce its negative impact in a socially responsible manner: public campaigning for traffic reduction. In my view, the use of cars rather than other alternatives has much more to do with cultural habits and perceptions than with anything else; and it seems obvious to me that the authorities have the ability to alter these habits and perceptions to a significant extent, and have already done so in many other aspects of life, such as family planning, tax responsibility, or smoking. In my opinion, this public campaigning would have to be implemented in two complementary ways: first, negatively, by limiting and regulating car advertising, and secondly, by positively boosting the advertising of alternative means of transport and the publicity of the negative aspects of driving. 

As a conclusion, I would like to summarise the proposals contained in this essay: first, the reduction of the number of cars by means of a rationing system; secondly, the promotion of utility cycling as an alternative; and finally, the use of public campaigning to shift social mentalities away from the perceived imperative need to drive. It is my belief that the problems associated to road traffic congestion are far from being impossible to deal with, but rather the opposite, and that if we keep an open mind, various realistic and socially responsible solutions are not difficult to find and implement.   







 
