

The legalization of homosexual weddings is a theme that generates a great discussion. This discussion brings face to face two different positions ( people in favor or against them) that argue some different reasons to support their stances. To talk about the possibility of homosexual unions legalization, first we must talk about their morality, and about this question there are  some different ways and positions. 

In this essay, I will try to discuss about these different positions and their own arguments to be in favor or against gay weddings. And to be objectives we must to consider Catholic Church traditions , public Catholic education, the usual English and American puritanism; totally opposite to these modern tendencies... and in the other side,  the situation of organizations that defends  human, moral and personal rights.

We have talk about two different ways; to be in favor or against homosexual weddings. In the firs option, Catholic movements, conservative groups and defenders of traditional family argue that it isn't  moral and could generate a wrong influence in the children's education. On the other hand, the pro-gay organizations argue that, like in heterosexual pairs, homosexual people need some legal rights that support their unions.

Starting with the group that is against these weddings, we have got various reasons or arguments to support their positions. Catholic Church is one of the most important groups against homosexual unions. They defend that the term gay-marriage is an antithesis, because of one of the most important meanings of marriage; as for them, it must be the union of two people of different sex, in love, which are going to create a family under the Catholic traditions.

Whit Catholic Church, there are groups like "Traditional family defenders", they think  that any relationship between people of the same sex is, in some way, against the life, because of their impossibility to have sons. 
They argue that these unions are no moral and unnatural because of biological reasons, and are also against their possibility of adoption because of the possible problems that could cause in the wrong education of their children

On the other hand, we have got a great group witch support the gay weddings. Groups like COGAM(Colectivo de Lesbianas Gays Transexuales y Bisexuales de Madrid), GLAD (Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders), GLAAD (Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation), FMC Freedom to Marry Coalition - Pro-Gay Marriage Organization. All them try to fight for all these rights arguing that their rights must be on a part with  the rest of society, and not only in social and moral ways; also in the field of legality.

In politics there are usually a representation of these two positions; the more conservationist, normally with influence of the Church, and the group of leftist, supporting this kind of causes. In Spain for example, politicians have used gay marriage's problems like a way to collect votes. The two more important parties (PP and PSOE) have developed a debate about this legalization. The PSOE, one of the leftist parties, think that homosexual unions are one necessary step to defend humans equality; like the feminism movements defend their rights, gay people must to defend them. On the other hand, PP, a conservationist right-wing party, talk about some different things against the homosexual weddings. The most important reason for them against gay unions is their name and the possible problems that could it generate. They defend that, homosexual unions cannot be called marriage, because of the Catholic connotations of the term, but  yet should be called unions; term that is clearly exempted from these connotations. Catholic connotations.

To conclude, we could say that, the legalization of homosexual unions is a social event which affects to a great group in our society. And that supposes a great conflict between the two main positions. This conflict supposes a great confrontation of opposite ideas and seems to cannot be solved by the moment.


