

In this essay I am going to talk about The soft drugs and their positive and negative uses and effects in our society. Should soft drugs be legalised? That is a really interesting question and in our society and it's suppose a great conflict.

In my opinion, legalization of some soft drugs is a god way for some different reasons; the possibles medical uses of some of them, the real control that will exist over these drugs like quality controls, the possible repercussion of legalization in mafia's drugs... Looking all these arguments, I think the legalization is a possible effective way to delete most of problems related directly to soft illegal drugs.

The mean reason to support this steps, (referring to the repercussion in humans) are the possible medical uses of some of these drugs in medicine. Some doctors argue that MARIHUANA is a good natural way to get worse the pain caused by cancer or glaucoma. In fact now is legal under medical control in some different countries.  

 Thinking about the last examples, could be suggested that  the use of some of these drugs under medical control will be positive to patients affected by painful treatments

On the other, in the social field, I think this legalization of drugs could be one way to reduce the illegal traffic of them. This illegal traffic is not only a movement of big shots of the MAFIA, it has got a direct repercussion in the normal people, make worst the life quality in peripheric zones where usually are settled these activities, making the outlying and troubled areas. The existence of these kind of  zones are dangerous to the total society of  a city. For this, I think that legalization of some soft drugs could be beneficial to reduce the violence and dangerous situations of peripheric zones. Also the existence of the MAFIA is a great waste of money to the government. 

Some people could argue that the legalization of soft drugs is another way to facilitate the access of teenagers to them but, like in the alcohol consumption, there should exist some rules to their use.  Actually for a teenager in the most of developed countries is easier to get some illegal soft drugs than a packet of cigarettes because of  the legal steps that require a minimum age to their use. On the other hand, people that consume tobacco or alcohol is making a decision under the knowledge that is no good for their health. But in some way this decision depends on the person... not in the law... 

Some people think that, if a teenager decides to consume  drugs, they expose themselves not only to their effects but to the dangerous process to take them as well which could mean the access to danger zones or contact with controversial people The legalization of these drugs should erase in one step more than one problem. With the legalization, the problem related to  dangers that involves their obtaining, also will be eliminated some problems of quality... if the drug  will be legal, the sanitary authority will have to analyze them before their selling and consume.

To conclude, I think that, for all these reasons and their supporting examples, this legalization could be really beneficial to our society in some different ways; medicine, violence and mafia's actions in outskirts, country's economy. For that, in my own view,it's the best possible solution to erase all these problems in one only step.
