
       For many years it has been discussed if gay people should be allowed to get 
married and adopt children or not. Homophobia is a problem in some parts of the world, 
some persons are disagree with the law which allowed gay marriage because they 
considered gay relationships like an unnatural choice. They also think that they can not 
adopt children because it is not a good enviroment to educate children. Each time are 
more usual same-sex unions, and more countries establish laws in favour of this kind of 
union. I agree with these laws. I strongly believe that gay people should have same 
rights as heterosexual people. 
       I think that gay people should be allowed to get married and adopt children 
because they are like the rest of persons, their sexual condition does not matter. In my 
opinion gay marriage should be considered like a heterosexual marriage with the same 
rights and if they want to adopt children and they are capable of, they can do it. Gay 
couple is only a different way to love but their feels are the same that in a heterosexual 
couple and, in my opinion, they can educate children too. I do not think that to grow 
with same-sex parents harm children, however, perhaps other children make fun of them 
and it perhaps afect to gay's children. Everyway it is not a excuse to not allow gay 
people adopt children because children also make fun of other children and their parents 
are not homosexuals, I mean, children always find reasons to make fun of other 
children.       
       Some people thinks that homosexuality is a mental illness and homosexuals and 
promiscous.Normally people who thinks it also believe the propaganda from religious 
organizations which says that homosexuality is just sex, not feelings. This organizations 
considered that gay relationships are a sexual perversion and immoral. The people who 
believe it have a lot of reasons for opposing gay marriage, some of them are: marriages 
are for procreation and ensuring the continuation of the species, same-sex marriage 
would threaten the institution of marriage, same-sex couples are not the optimum 
environment in which to raise children, gay sex is unnatural, and so on. In my opinion 
one of the real reasons is the thought of gay sex is repulsive, they can not simply accept 
a different way to love.	
	There are many places in the world where gays and lesbians marriage is 
legalized. For example gays can get married in Canada, Netherlands, or Belgium. In 
other countries like South Africa this law could be stablished soon. In Spain, this law, 
called "Ley 13/2005", voted in June 2005. Before this law exist, spanish legislation did 
not recognized same-sex couples. Afterwards through this law gay people have got 
same rights as heterosexual couples. My own view is that each time more countries 
should establish a law to recognized gay marriage and to allow gay people adopt 
children, and in this way perhaps more persons accept this kind of union because as I 
said before the sexual condition of a person does not matter to get marriage or to 
educate a child.
	In conclusion, I believe that gay people should have the same rights that the 
heterosexual people: they should be allowed to get married and adopt children. In 
addition I think that law in favour of gay and lesbian marriage should be stablished in 
more countries. However I understand that it is a big social change, and perhaps society 
need several time to accept it and see it like a heterosexual relationship, but in my 
opinion people must not be against these laws, because they are necessary in order to 
progress.
       
