
For many years people have discussed if marijuana should be legalized or not. 
Marijuana is considered a drug. There are several definitions for drug, two of them are: 
1. substance used to treat an illness, relieve a symptom or modify a chemical process in 
the body for a specific purpose, or, 2. a chemical substance, such as a narcotic or 
hallucinogen, that affects the central nervous system and causing changes in behavior. 
We can dintinguish two kinds of drug: hard drugs, like cocaine or heroine, and soft 
drugs, marijuana is considered a soft drug because it is without evidence of physical 
addiction. The legalisation of marijuana is a delicate topic. In this essay I try to reflect 
some points of view about legalisation of marijuana.
In Spain the law allows the consumption of marijuana in private places, however in 
public places the consumption of this drug is considered a serious infraction, it could be 
punished with fines between 300,51 and 30.050 euros. The sanctions will be able to be 
suspended  if the offender surrenders to a treatment of detoxification in a center 
properly accredited. If the consumption of marijuana takes place in a establishment, the 
authorities could close this, but usually if the owners pay the fine, between 5 and 100 
millions of pesetas, the establishment could still open.
There are some people who think that the consumption of marijuana should still 
punished. The plant of Cannabis contains about 400 chemical different substances, 60 
of which are structurally related to THC. These substances cause drop of attention in 
small doses and visual illusions or sleepiness in high doses. For the reasons before 
marijuana harm people health and it is ilegalized. Moreover these people hold that every 
drugs cause physical and psychological dependence, includes marijuana, although it is 
not proved that this drug cause physical adiction. Other reason of people who are 
against the legalisation is that drug traffic could be generated other crimes, besides 
drugs traffic, and other despicable actions.
There are other people, normally young people, who strongly believe that marijuana 
should be legalized. Usually this people are marjuana consumers.They do not discuss 
that cannabis is harmful for human health but they hold that their personal use shoul not 
be punished because when thy consume it, they not harm other people. They complain 
about laws which banned marijuana consumption because they think that use this drug 
is a decision of each one.
One of the most important reasons in order to defend the consumption of marijuana is 
its therapeutic uses. Marijuana is legalized in countries like Netherlands, where is legal 
consume and grow it. This drug inhibit sickness and pain in patiens with cancer who 
receive chemotherapy, in HIV patiens marijuana helps to overcome sickness and loss of 
appetite provoked by this illness and his treatment with AZT and other substances, 
cannabis also reduces the muscular pain produced by illnesses like multiple sclerosis. 
Each time, there are more countries that legalized marijuana in its medical uses, Spain 
and United Kingdom approved this law in the middle of 2001.
In conclusion, we have seen some opinions about legalisation of marijuana. Every of 
these opinions have their justification, and everyone should be respected. Marijuana is 
really harmfull for human health but as we saw it also have good properties for ease 
pain in some illness. There are not a solution which everybody consider a good one, 
however, I believe that the medical use is a very good reason to legalize it.
