
         Traffic is an increasing problem in Madrid, especially in the city centre. 
The main reason for this is, no doubt, the large number of cars that is constantly 
growing because of the considerable rise of the population in a short period of 
time. Madrid is also suffering extensive roadworks that is not helping the 
situation. I personally believe that this point at issue has a difficult solution as 
everybody has to collaborate in order to reduce the agglomeration. In this 
essay, I will propose some solutions that I believe will help in some ways.         
         In my opinion, a better and more frequent public transport in Madrid 
would reduce this problem. If you use this method of travelling, either the bus or 
the underground, the frequency is acceptable during the rush hour. However, at 
weekends and on bank hollidays, sometimes it is necessary to wait for an 
exaggerated period of time. Moreover, the starting time of both the undeground 
and the bus services is approximately six o'clock in the morning, which is far 
too late for many people who have to go to work much earlier. Therefore, they 
need to use their cars.         
         On the other hand, buses and taxis have to make several stops in 
inconvenient places in order to collect and leave the passengers at their stops. 
They often cause or aggravate the already complicated traffic situation. 
Besides, buses are wider, longer and more difficult to manoeuvre especialy in 
small narrow streets even when there is not much traffic. Nevertheless, with 
less private vehicles, streets could be better adapted to public transport.         
         For my part, I also believe that roadworks to create not wider roads but 
better exits and access to them would reduce the traffic jams every morning and 
at weekends. This development should have taken place many years ago. This 
means that some crossroads regulated with traffic lights which cause a lot of 
problems, could be substituted by bridges or by tunnels, so that vehicles do not 
have to stop. Of course, it is possible to argue that the government has planned 
the new roads and other substructures in the best way, to reduce, as much as 
possible, daily traffic jams. Yet, what they cannot do is decide to start all the 
road works at the same time. During the next years, everybody will suffer this 
development plus all the traffic problems there were before.         
         Another possible solution for traffic problems in Madrid could be, in my 
view, the prohibition  to enter with private vehicles in the city centre. This idea, 
is difficlut to put into practice, but this would mean that only public transport 
could go through the centre and so there would be more space for pedestrian 
precincts and less pollution. In addition, people who live in this area could get 
home in a shorter period of time, by using public transport. If they have cars, 
they should have a car park reserved for them outside the centre. Other people 
think that it would be better for people who want to drive to the centre to pay a 
toll, as they are doing in London. However, my own view of this is that firstly, it 
is not fair to pay more money to reach some areas than to others. Secondly, 
installing a toll in the city centre would cause even worse traffic jams.         
         To sum up, this essay has considered the importance but also the 
difficulty of finding a solution to the traffic problem in Madrid. We could 
encourage people to take public transport by making it better and build new 
substructures to make traffic more fluent on the roads. We might also add the 
ban of the circulation of private cars in certain areas. These are, from my point 
of view, some solutions that the government should consider. Nevertheles, as in 
all large cities, excesive traffic will always be a serious problem.
