       Immigration in Spain has become a current discussion issue not only among 
Spanish society but also in others countries. Over the past two decades, Spain has gone 
from being a country of emigration to a country of immigration. At present, Spain has 
become a new pole of attraction for those who live in poorer conditions than us. 
Immigration has not only become an important topic both as a real fact and as a political 
issue, but also it's an important question to our contemporary Spanish society who are 
continuously asking herself whether immigrants are a good or a bad fact to Spain. In 
fact, immigration is one of the 3 most important worries for Spanish population, 
together with unemployment and terrorism. The non-EU migrants, in a whole of 1.4 
million people, are mostly coming from North Africa (Morocco and Algeria), from 
Latin America (Ecuador, Peru, Dominican Republic and Colombia), from Asia (China 
and Philippines) and from South Africa (Senegal and Nigeria); they all are looking for 
working chances as well as a better way of life. In this essay I will try to discuss the 
main viewpoints about immigration in Spain.
	To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of immigration. Many 
people feel that immigration is a good resource to Spain. According to the journalist 
Rodrigo Paris Rojas, Spain needs immigrants to guarantee economic feasibility. As he 
points out it can be seen that Spain has to face two main problems related to economy 
which make immigrants really necessary. Firstly, Spanish population is more and more 
old; while 3 decades ago women used to have 3 children, the current birth rate has 
decreased to 1.1 children per woman. This means, according the Watson Wyatt's 
director in Spain (Alfonso Jiménez), that every year during the following 20 years it 
will be less people working; this fact could cause a situation in which the labour market 
won't be able to afford retirement pensions. Secondly, service sector is one of the main 
sectors in Spanish economy and Spanish population more and more rejects those jobs; 
as the human resources director of Vips restaurants <R> asserts, 
immigration is also necessary on this point; he maintains that immigration should be 
accepted in a natural way, without prejudices.	
	Another factor to take into account is businessmen view, which is totally in 
favour of immigration. They are asking to government to make flexible policies to 
incorporate immigrants in Spanish labour market in a fast and easy way because 
immigration is a fact Spain cannot life without, since it represents one of the mains 
forces in the labour market. In addition diversity can offer to enterprises an important 
source of competitive benefit, the challenge to businessmen is to make differences in 
their workers an advantage to their business (more creativity, best problem solutions 
and a major flexibility system). This seems to be a convincing argument in favour of 
immigration because of its logical and practical view; however it appears to have certain 
weaknesses since it just take into account working world and not other aspects in life 
which are also important for society.
	On the other hand there are those who feel immigration as a negative aspect in 
Spanish society. Many people believe that we have to face some important challenges 
such us the cultural, the economic and the working one. According to several research 
from experts in economy, immigration make unemployment rate increase; however, 
although this may be true to some extent, it is also possible to argue that during growth 
periods in unemployment rate immigrants are the largest group. About the cultural 
aspect, some people suggest that immigrants have different behaviour, traditions and 
customs; however this argument about immigrant rejection seems not to make much 
sense, because one's customs or traditions have not to be always worse than others or 
mean a threat, there are just differences. 
       Moreover it is also thought that immigrants' presence represents public 
insecurity, they are usually thought violent, drug dealers and mafia members; in fact, a 
recent study indicates that rapes, murders and the general incident of crime are 
increasing since immigration is more and more present in Spain. Nevertheless, it is 
reasonable to argue that immigrants suffer from a too difficult and painful situation in 
which they are usually treated as slaves by their employers and the don't obtain enough 
money to life; that is why in many cases they are likely to work in prostitution, deal 
with drugs...        
       There are also some people who regard immigration depending on different 
situations and aspects. We could say that the Immigration Policy in Spain is designed to 
address to two main goals: the border control and the immigrant's integration. Some of 
the evidence in public opinion shows that Spanish Policy should establish strongest 
fences to immigrants to enter in Spain because they feel threatened; they fear a kind of 
invasion since they feel themselves as the foreigner in their own country. Other people 
are only afraid of immigrants from certain countries and not from others; afraid from 
some cultures. Moreover, while some people think every immigrant can be violent, it is 
also felt that they are as violent as native people can be. On the other hand, one of the 
main arguments in favour is that Spanish society should allow and help immigrants to 
an easiest integration because they contribute to became richer our country, not only 
economically, but also in a cultural way, allowing to broad our minds with new ways of 
seeing life.       
       To sum up, it seems there are different views both for and against immigration in 
Spain. Those in favour are based in economic and working arguments as well as the 
advantages of diversity; while those who condemn it are related to crime and defence to 
the own jobs and culture. The arguments in favour appear more convincing and 
reasonable in terms of pluralism since they are not prejudiced by racism or fear to 
differences.
       
       	

	

							




Vanessa Hernández Varas
A39-2

