       In our present society homosexual people are step by step being considered as 
normal as heterosexual; given this achievement they are asking for equal rights such us 
marriage and adoption. Throughout history there have been repeated examples of gay 
people who were bound to hide their sexual orientation since they were believed to be 
ill and were driven back by most people because more traditional values were imposed 
in the society by religion, which was firmly in command of them; that is why for many 
years homosexual people were not brave enough to face this social problem. However 
nowadays, it is a well-known fact that these people are little by little being made to feel 
welcome by society, but there are still many different opinions about their rights. The 
aim of this essay is to focus on homosexual marriage and adoption legalisation, a 
problem which is often discussed these days; arguing that, to my mind, homosexual 
people should be allowed to have both rights in the same way heterosexual have.       
       From my point of view, homosexual people should be approved as normal 
couples. Personally speaking, I feel that everybody should have the freedom to take 
their own way of life, in other words, in my view everyone should be allowed to choose 
the person they love in the use of his sexual orientation freedom, I mean society should 
also accept couples made up of two men or women. On the other hand, it is often said 
that a man can only fall in love with a woman and vice versa, suggesting that the only 
possible relation between two men or women is friendship because since civilisation 
began the loving couple was constituted by one man and one woman, in addition this is 
the nature for sexual relations. Nevertheless, I disagree with this: I believe this is just a 
traditional view which comes from religion, moreover as well as other traditional values 
have changed, it is only time and our mind we depend on to turn this view. I am totally 
convinced that another factor to take into account is that such an amount of homosexual 
people in the world throughout history cannot be neither wrong nor suffering from a 
kind of illness or sexual disorder like many people argue.       
       It is sometimes argued that marriage represents, by definition, the love union 
between a man and a woman whose aim is to procreate in order to start a family. First of 
all, I think it is relevant to point out that the only difference (away from religious 
believes) between a married couple and an unmarried one is, as I see, the benefits and 
aids which marriages receive from the state and government; that is to say chance of 
adoption, husband or wife's heritance, getting divorce, widow's pension, working and 
fiscal benefits... It can be seen that for several years homosexual people have been 
sharing their lives as unmarried couples since in fact only three countries -Holland, 
Belgium and Spain- allow homosexual marriages, an arrangement which affects to four 
million people in a forty million  population according to a gay association. So, in my 
view, homosexual couples should also have the right to receive those benefits as 
heterosexual.       
       It seems to me that another right which should be available to homosexual 
couples is adoption because they also may like to start a family, bringing up children 
and loving them, in the same way as heterosexual marriages. However, it is also 
worthwhile considering the view of those who maintain that children brought up by 
homosexual couples could suffer from several difficulties; firstly the lack of a father or 
a mother; secondly this kind of family is said to influence their sexual identity; and 
finally they may will not be well fitted into the normal way in society, beginning with 
school where they would have to suffer from the continuous insults by the rest of 
children.        
       However I think there are not real grounds for those interpretations. First, I think 
two men or women are equally capable to bring up children in the best way, as 
American Paediatrics Academy stated child have the right to have two parents whether 
they are in both sexes or one; second, sexuality cannot be assured to be influenced by 
parents orientation, in my opinion the only way to prove this is setting a study in which 
we can analyse the results; finally this fear about their normal integration in school and 
society maybe can be understood in the first moments but after that, they would be 
accepted as normal. I strongly believe that the key aspect has to do with the fact that at 
home parents -whatever their sexuality are- should give a lot of love and 
communication to their children, being sensitive to their needs, living in a happily way. 
In short I think it is a question more of quality of life than of familiar structure.       
       Let us conclude by saying that it appears to me homosexual people should have 
the same rights as heterosexual, which means they should be allowed to get married and 
also to adopt children; in short we should allow them to be as happy as we can be. 
However there are a contradiction in society: in one hand it is a fact that many people 
state that homosexual couples should have the same rights that traditional marriages but 
in the other hand when people are surveyed about marriage or adoption they don't 
agree. Anyway in the future we will see if finally homosexual rights are admitted. In my 
opinion the important thing in a home is not its outside shape, if it is built of stone or 
wood, if it has one or two floors; the real question is the accommodation and protection 
function that ought to hold.
       
       


















