
For centuries has existed gay people. It is a fact that in the antique Greece or Rome, homosexuality was allowed. However, in next centuries homosexuality became like a sin due to the church's sight. Nowadays our society are more accostumed to see gay people, than for example, twenty years ago, but still many people are prejudided against homosexuality. These days the new law that allows gay people to get married has produced an intense discussion. In this essay I intend to defend the rights of gay people and I will explain the different opinions.

At first, I think that everybody in our society has the same rights. Our constitution says that everybody we are equal, with same rights and with same responsabilities. Gay people also pay their income tax and must respect all laws as the rest of people. Of course, this is not importance for a lot of people such as religious people or persons whose minds are against the sexual freedom. For them is more important to keep the moral values because if gay people lose these, that means a degradation of their souls or walk against nature. I'm completely disagree because I think that walk against nature is denying your own feelings and I also think that gay people can have moral values such as don't kill, don't steal, etc.

In second place, when homosexuality don't have been allowed, the couples of gay people have kept their relationships though they must hidden themselves. In my opinion, now that homosexuality don't is forbidden; why must gay people hide their relationship? I think that is unjust that they hide their love only for don't disturb the rest of people. And if they want to get married I believe that there isn't problem. However, it could be argued that the marriage is only for a man and a woman. But I think that the problem here is only due to the name of this institution, and I'm sure that it can be resolved easily.

The politicals have made this more polemical, and have improved of it for their personal benefit. I think that the P.S.O.E. has proposed this law for win more number of votes. And the P.P. seem don't want this law, but probably he would say yes to this law in other case. The quarrel between the two groups made of the gay people an instrument for political benefit. And I think that it's very bad, because this theme is enough important for a lot of people and the politicals should worry more for this collective.

Finally, the other aspect of this theme of this law is maybe the most difficult to deal because it is reference to a third person: the law also permites gay people adopt children. A lot of people think at respect that isn't good for the children, because a kind must have a father and a mother and don't two fathers or two mothers. Also they says that this children will suffer bad treatments at school due to his familiar condition. As I have say, this is the more difficult aspect of this law. I believe that gay people have right to adopt children, but I'm not sure that if it's the better for the children.

In summary is clear that gay people has so rights as everybody, because the sexual choice musn't limit the rights of people, the homosexual couples don't obliged to hide their relationships. In my personal opinion the people that are against the gay people should put themselves in their place and should to be more respectable because everybody have same rights and also have same feelings.

