
Alway has existed the phenomenon of immigration. Immigration can be defined as the arrival to a foreign country for establish in. The immigration began at Prehistory, when the first human beings started to emigrate form Africa to Europe. In the past, a lot of Spanish people became immigrants for the countries that receives them, when they left Spain for seek a better life in these other countries such as: Germany, Frances, and especially the countries of South America. Nowadays, the situation has changes and huge crowds of people come to Europe as immigrants and especially, they come to Spain. This maybe due to the people of South America has the same language, or also the people of Africa, especially Morocco, take advantage of nearness to Spain. Whatever the reason, the fact is that Spain received more and more immigrants everyday. In this essay I will show different viewpoints about the problem of immigration.

At first, some people are against the immigration. They argue several reasons to defend their viewpoints. Most of times, they shows racist attitudes, because some of that people hate the immigrants, for example: skinheads. They think that the immigrants are inferiors and should remained in their countries becase as they said: "Spain is for the Spanish". Another reason that this people use, is that the immigrants steal us our jobs; or that they committed a lot of offences. But sometiimes the racist people don't limit themselves on complain about the situation or insult immigrants. Their hate has became in several times the cause of violent struggles and murders. This situation is too wicked and illegal, and police try to stop these behaviours. Furthermore, if we analyse carefully the reasons that racist people argued against the immigrants, we find it weaknesses, for example: "the immigrants steal us our jobs". This may be true, but in the most, the fact is that immigrant accept a lot of jobs that Spanish people don't want.

In second place, there are most people neither against the immigration nor agree. These people aren't racist, however, they are sometimes worries about the issue of immigration. Maybe due to xenophobia, that can be defined as fear to the foreign. It seems that xenophobia is very extended nowadays. Recent studies indicates that the immigration is one of the main problems for the Spanish population. Perhaps for that, a lot of people share reasons with the people against the immigration such as: fear for the job's problems or the deliquency. In addition, in our country the adolescents from South America has began to make violent groups called Latin Kings, that has made several and serious conflicts. These groups also has participated in some murders. These groups have their own rules and they are very well organised. For that is so difficult for the police stop their activities. These facts make many families worried about their adolescents goes to school. Recently, some people look with anguish the disturbances that are happened and happen still in France with fear that the same could happen here in Spain. Due to all these problems the fears of this people seems to make sense. Nevertheless, the people shouldn't to live with fear, because there are a lot of immigrants that only want work and live in peace.

In third place there are a few people that are agree with immigration. These people says, that there are, at least, two good reasons for cheer us with the immigration. The first argument is that, when an immigrant achieve all his documents in order and obtain a legal job, this immigrant are working also for the country, because with his work, he is increasing the budget of social security. The second reason is that with immigration, has incresed Spanish birth rate. These two arguments appears to de persuasive, but for make the first more successful should vanished the illegal contraction.

On the other hand, there are the immigrants and their thougts. The immigrants says that isn't easy leave their countries, their lifes, and begin new lifes. When the immigrants arrive to Spain, they work very hard for little wages. If we refer to immigrants of Africa, they has a dismal and dangerous travel for arrive to Spain, because they come in small and ruinous boats. An then, their life in our country don't seem very easy. Sometimes a good immigrant is looked as he's a delinquent. For example, after the spooky terrorist attack in Madrid, the Moslem community had to explain that the terrorist of Al-Qaeda doesn't represented their religion. Some Moslems felt fear for a possible reprisal. However, in despite of this, the immigration doesn't stop and everyday huge crowds of desperate people try to pass into our country.

In summary, the phenomenon of immigration is more difficult that could seem the population. Any politician find one effective solution and, while, the Spanish population has to learn to coexistence with the immigrants. There are people who are against this reality, there are people in favour and there are people who have the middle viewpoints as we has seen in this essay. One of the most important necessities seem to be, try to avoid the illegal contraction, and make effective laws that achieve to solve this serious issue.

