Homosexuals want to get married and to adopt children. The homosexuals have been in 
the past socially excluded, they had to hide from the society and from the reprisals of 
the people who don't accept homosexuality. 
       At present, there are some countries where the homosexuality is hard punished, 
two weeks ago I read some news on the newspaper where they said that in Iran two men 
have been hanged accused of homosexuality. 
       Fortunately in Spain the situation is very different. The homosexuals are slowly 
getting the rights that they have been pursuing for a long time. Since the 4th of july 2005 
they can get married in a civil court like the heterosexuals couples. There are some 
countries like Spain where these unions are legal: Norway, Denmark, Belgium and 
some states of the United States like New Jersey.
       I agree with these marriages. In my opinion, the homosexuals have the same 
rights as the heterosexuals. And that's why they may have the right to marry. It's 
obvious that they are not the typicall couple, a man and a woman, but that's not a reason 
to argue against these unions. In my own opinion the most important thing is that there 
are two people in love that have the wish to share their life and to formalize their union. 
       These marriages are topically in Spain. Since the day that the government  
proposed the possibility of a law which would allow the marriage between homosexuals 
there have been confrontations between differents sections of the society. Nowadays the 
law is a fact, but the clash hasn't finished yet. The church is one of them, they have 
criticized hard these unions. The Vatican can only imagine the marriage between a man 
and a woman. For them the other unions are not marriages, and they say that they are 
against biology.<Q>, declared the bishop of Málaga, Monseñor Antonio Soto.
       Another point of discord, is the possibilty of adoption for this couples. In Europe 
countries like Belgium and Finland the adoption for homosexuals couples is allowed.
       My opinion is: Why not? I think that if the homosexuals want to have children, 
why can't they do it?. In my opinion they can bring up, educate and give affection to 
their kids like heterosexual couples. <Q>, said María Sanz, psychologist of the Official Psychological Association of Madrid.
       On the other hand it could be argued that this adoption could be harmful for the 
children. Some specialists think that for a good growth, the child needs a father and a 
mother. <Q> said José Luis Mendoza, the director of the 
Catholic University of Murcia. This opinion is shared by a lot of people, they argued 
that this children will have a clash with his or her social enviroment, they will realize 
that their friends have a father and a mother and they will wonder why they don't have 
the same situation.
       To conclude, there are a lot of opinions about these themes. Sections of society 
like the church are against the marriages and the adoption. Others sections less 
conservatives allow the unions between homosexuals, but they don't want the term 
marriage to be used for these kind of union. I could not say if there are more people for 
or against these theories, because is a highly topical and we can't already know if the 
adoption will be bad or good for children but I advocate for the same rights for 
everybody independently the sexual option.
       I think that there is not a solution at short time, but I hope it will be a day when 
people will be free in order to do just what they want with their sexual option allways if 
they don't hurt the others. And about adoptions it is only time who will tell us what 
happens with children adopted by homosexuals. Let us see in the future.

