INMIGRATION 

The number of inmigrants in Spain is increasing considerably. Almost 
everyday, on TV and in the newspapers, there are news about the arrival of 
inmigrants in small boats called "pateras" to the spanish coasts. Many of 
them die in the attempt, and the rest are repatriated to their countries after 
some days of medical care. Others cannot be repatried because they "have 
forgotten" where they are from. For them, to look for a better way of living 
can have a private and dangerous price: to die. On the other hand there are 
others who don't need to put their lives in risk to arrive to Spain, their 
"promised land". They come  by plain from America or Asia, or by train 
from different zones of Europe, such as Roumania or Poland. All of them 
come looking for a new way of life, a new place where to give other 
opportunities to their children. In Spain they can work and send some 
money to their countries, where the old parents or some of the children 
have stayed. 
Spain is a good country to work in, with a political-economical stability 
that makes a pleasant atmosphere and good conditions of life. For the 
inmigrants it is something like a paradise. But when they finally get to 
arrive, the situation is very different from the one they had imaginated: they 
can't find a job, they are exploted, bad paid, and have to live in subhuman 
conditions.
A recent study indicates that the 24% of the spanish population consider 
the inmigration positive for the country, and not only in an economic way. 
These, who are for the immigration, want to give the inmigrants a chance to 
be able of improving their life. Inmigrants enrich the life of the naturals of 
the country. These people wish, dream of a world without frontiers, without 
nations, where everybody is a citizen of the univers, all the same where 
they are from. From this point of view nobody is the propietary of the earth 
we live in, everything is for everybody and nobody is or should be a 
foreigner at anywhere. 
Although this viewpoint appears to be utopian, there are more people than 
we think who think like that. Unfortunately we live in a  materialist world, 
where we want only the pleasure for the pleasure, money, holidays, a good 
car and, specially, better than the one our neighbour has. Because of that 
most people think as in the other following two positions we can find out.
Secondly, there are people who are in a mid-point. They are for the 
inmigration but only if the inmigrants come to us with a work contract. 
Only the inmigrants who have the contract may come, and that way we can 
assure that inmigrants won't come in a massive way. This argument is used 
by people who knows the life of an inmigrant, or who have been inmigrants 
too. People who suffered theirselves the inmigration in Spain. 
When in the 60's the spaniards had to emigrate to France, Germany, 
Argentine, Uruguay, they could only travel with a work contract. It is an 
effective way to regularize and to organize the inmigration. 
As it has been told before, it appears like the opinion of people who have 
lived in Germany, as an inmigrant, or who has had a relative as an 
inmmigrant in other countries. Only they can understand how is the life of 
an inmigrant, living far of the family, with problems with the language, 
being not loved nor understood in the country, etc.
And finally, as a third position, there are people who are totally against 
inmigration. They criticize it hardly. They don't accept to the inmigrants 
because they are different and they ae going to stole us the good things we 
have.  For many of them who is different can be dangerous, and if they 
have an other religion or way of thinking, still more.
Most of these people relate the inmigration with the increased crime that 
have appeared last years in big cities in Spain like Madrid or Barcelona. 
They think that the arrival of inmigrants generate the formation of criminal 
groups or mafias, which increase the number of murders, robberies and 
other offences. The high level of unemployment is a consequence of the 
inmigration according to this position. The inmigrants hold work posts and 
because of that, the spaniards, or their children in the future, will not find a 
work. 
It is easy to see that this position is the one that hold the most radical, the 
most intolerant. For them Spain is only for those who speak spanish, and 
the work in Spain must be for the spaniards. These people are who form 
groups for expelling the inmigrants or even to torture or kill them. 
We have seen that there are three clear positions in our society: the very 
tolerant, who understand that we are all human beings looking for a better 
way of life; the mid-point ones, who say yes but in a regulated way, with 
"papers" or a "contract to work"; and the last ones, who have much to see 
with racism and fascism. Independently  of these points of view, and if we 
want to know what is going to happen in the future, we must answer first  
why do they come, not only to Spain, but to other countries too. And the 
answer is that they abandon their countries, even in risk of losing their 
lives, because the sharing out of the goods, the possesions, is not well done 
on our Earth. There are too many people who live with one dollar per day, 
or even less, and many others who own most of the money and power of 
the world. As long as the world be like that the flow of inmigrants will 
never stop. They will keep on jumping over the wall.
