In our present society the consumption of soft drugs like marijuana is getting a social 
value that leads a lot of people to feel curiosity and taste it. The ancient civilizations 
comsumed it already with therapeutical, religious and recreational purposes. Then the 
use of this plant was restricted to Asia and Africa. But it was during the pictoric 
movement of the "ismos" when some painters, like Baudelaire or Delacroix , started 
smoking it with a recreational purpose, although it was illegal like now. But it has 
evolved to what people do nowadays: smoke marijuana in friendly environments. So 
people who consume it want to legalize it because it's a habit they are accustomed to. 
But the concentration of THC (tetrahidrocannabinol), one of its active principles, has 
changed as the years have passed: nowdays it's higher than in the 70's, when the 
hippies used to smoke it. On the other hand, also it has been argued the character of this 
drug to cure some illnesses or decrease the symptoms caused by others. In this essay 
I'm going to show the different points of view that are related with the legalisation of 
marijuana.

It seems generally agreed that the marijuana should be legalised because it is a soft 
drug: It's not so addictive like other drugs, it causes a feeling of comfort, relax, and son 
on. As a consequence, a lot of people think that smoke marijuana is not harmful. 
Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. According 
to scientific studies, there are psychological and physiological risks. On the 
psycghological side, there are possibilities of suffer anxiety, difficulties when doing 
complex functions like learn or memorize, and son on. The effects on the psysiological 
side are similar to the cigarrettes. And these risks are used by the government as a 
evidence (though they use more) to not to legalize the marijuana. 

Some people would argue that the marijuana has got some therapeutical qualities that 
would improve the consequences that some illnesses cause. For example, the lack of 
hungry that AIDS causes, or the vomits because of chemotherapy. It is used with this 
purpose in some countries, selling it in chemist's shop, like Holland and recently Spain 
-though the government in Spain it's not trying to legalize it with other purposes. But 
this viewpoint has a weakness: doctors don't recommend marijuana to be smoked, 
because it could cause chest aches, but to be had in syrup or tablets; though do it will be 
hard because scientists will have to work a lot. 

One of the main arguments against the legalisation of marijuana is that the risk of 
teenagers or children to taste this drug will increase, as they will be freer to buy it, 
without the fear of being uncovered by their parents, because they will be accustomed to 
seeing people smoking joints in the street, in their houses or wherever. But seems 
reasonable to say that the government would create campaigns to make aware people 
about that smoke a lot is dangerous, because it causes chest illnesses like cancer of lung, 
it damages some greasy brain tissues, and so on. Also some cinema directors shoot 
films about drugs: ones process this theme in a funny way to show that smoke 
marijuana is not bad, other process this theme with exageration to show the 
consequences of consume this drug; and everyone should decide whether he or she 
smoke marijuana or not.

Pamela Pereira, a Chilean lawyer that wrestles against the legalisation of Marijuana, 
seems to believe that people want to legalise marijuana for three main reasons: first, to 
break up with the drug traffic; second, because policeman are tired of arresting people 
who smoke marijuana, when there is a more important delinquence; and third, because 
of a personal interest, which is to enjoy smoking this drug wherever and whenever they 
want. She says also that even though it is legal, there will always be a black market that 
will offer marijuana cheaper and, of course, of a worst quality. So the money is what 
incites the drug's world. 

The argument of Pereira seems a logical one, because the reasons she says that are the 
main, are present in the rest of the countries. These are the reasons that people use 
around the world to legalise the marijuana. Also, what she says about the black market 
of drug is very common: nowadays there is a black market of all things that are illegal 
or difficult to find them.

To sum up, this essay has considered the different perspectives about the legalisation of 
Marijuana not only in Spain, but in the rest of the countries. The most important 
perspectives in favour are that it's not so harmful like other drugs as cocaine, it could 
relax you as valerian could do, on a psysiological side it's so harmful as other legal 
drugs as the tobacco is, and it could improve the aches caused by some illnesses like 
AIDS. And the main arguments against the legalisation are the psychological and 
physiological damages, like annxiety or chest aches, the bad influences to teenagers and 
children, who will maybe grow up seeing their family and friends smoking, and the 
possible growth of the black market.
One possible solutions, when legalised, might be to control the levels of THC that 
contains the marijuana that will be sold, and concenciate the people that smoke a little 
(maybe one diary joint, or less) is not very harmful, but to abuse of it is where the 
danger is.

