During the second half of the twentieth century, the gay people that 'came out of the 
closet' were hardly repressed, for example during the franquismo in Spain. Little by 
little, the majority of the western society seems to have accepted coexisting with the 
homosexuals, though it have been a hard way to become convinced about gays and 
lesbians are persons like the rest of them, and being homosexual is not synonymous of 
being a delinquent, like some people used to think. So they must get used to the 
existence of homosexual marriages in a nearby future. In this essay I will argue that in 
my view the homosexual people have got the same rights as heterosexual people, so 
they can get married too and adopt children.
The marriage is a very old way of forming couples to assure the procreation. But 
nowadays, in my own view, it is used like a way of proving the love, so it have 
changed: also, a new way of experience the marriage have been passed, the gay 
marriage. The purpose of the marriage is the happiness, the possibility of sharing the 
objects, and the rights that everybody must have got. Nevertheless, some people feel 
that gay people mustn't get married because they are different to heterosexual people, so 
they must do different things too (like we can see on the behaviour of the most 
conservative people). But everybody should have got some moral values (though 
everybody don't have it) like tollerance and equality. In accordance with all that, the 
homosexuals have got the right to get married.
In June 2005, the spanish PP ordered to make an study about the gay people, related to 
the adoption. There, a lot of stupidities were said, in my opinion. They said to be gay is 
a pathology (and I strongly believe that the gay person is not ill), that homosexual 
people have, in general, got an alcoholic father and a mother very protective, and that 
the child adopted by gays in ten years will demand an indemnity to the government for 
let their parents adopt. I feel that these stupidities were said because the ex-government 
is ungry because of the approval of this law, which they didn't want. Obviously, I think 
that it's nonesense because a gay doesn't have, normally, an alcoholic father: it doesn't 
depend on the life's circunstances, but in the chromosomes.
So many people seems to conceive the adoption by gay people, in my view, like another 
problem. But it shouldn't be a problem: if someone want to adopt and a child want a 
family, why not to let them adopt? On the other hand, there are people who defend that 
should be priorities to those couples that can't have children because of the infertility of 
the woman, because almost  all of the homosexual seems to can have children. But, after 
the couples with problems, they should be at the list of the adoption, because they have 
got the right of being happy creating a family.
To conclude, I would say that, at first, I believe that our society will be reticent about 
the novelty of the gay's weddings, but little by little those values about I spoke before 
will be our basic values, and that's exactly what we need. Also I strongly believe that 
the children that have homosexual parents will be more tollerant than the others, 
because they will see that liking men or women isn't related to being a better or a worst 
person, like a lot of people think. And I hope that those who think that the gays are ill 
persons change their mind about it.

