In our present society students must face lots of problems and obstacles inside and outside the 
schools or universities. Many of these problems, such as exams or personal problems, may make 
them feel depressed or they may throw in the towel, but they must solve them if later they want to 
get a good job. In this essay I intend to introduce the main problems suffered by school students 
and university students and some possible solutions to try to avoid these problems in some way. 

There are several serious problems which may affect school children's progress and behaviour. 
First of all, one of the main causes is the exams they have. Some children 
fail the exams since they are so nervous, and even though they have studied a lot before, they may 
have a mental block and there are two possibilities: they fail or although they pass an exam, get 
less grade than they worth. Maybe because of this, or also because some students are too lazy, 
some of them make crib notes, so they don't learn anything at all. Really, the fact of making an 
exam can be too exhausting for some school students, above all when they are in High School, 
where the level is harder than Primary School. Also when they have to pass "Selectividad" there is 
too much disquiet, principally as "Selectividad" is the big step from school to college, and students 
risk many things in these exams. It's also said that the persons who mark the exams in 
"Selectividad" are too much harder than the teachers in the school, so the students are extremately 
nervous. For example, it's said that some students, above all in "Selectividad" and "Bachillerato", 
take tranquilizers or something like this to study all the night. But this is a bad way of getting good 
grades, because sleeping is fundamental to make a good exam, and if you don't sleep, in the 
morning they will be so tired that they won't be able to concentrate or reason for making a good 
exam. 

Second, other causes of bad progress or behaviour are personal problems. For instance, if the 
parents of a child are divorced, the kid's progress in the school may decrease, as it's said when the 
parents are divorced, sometimes the kid cannot accept it, and he's very sad, or sometimes (but few 
times) he might become a little bit agressive. Also if their parents marry again with another different 
person, the child may does not accept him or her. And it is rather a big problem the theme of the 
child's  custody, so the kid must face more problems than the fact of their parents are divorced. 
Another point to take into account is the relationship among the kid and his classmates. These 
days, some children can be very cruel, above all when they are between 13 and 17 years old. If a 
bad kid try to make another kid's life a misery, of course the kid's  pogress and autosteem will 
decrease. And it's also known that in some schools there is a group of kids who hit or threaten 
another one, who is weaker than them, and this poor kid may fall into a strong depression or comit 
suicide in very extreme cases; this year in Spain, a 14 year old kid comitted suicide since their 
classmates hit and threatened him very strongly. Finally, another problem to take into account is 
love for example, for when you are in love you miss completely your head, and if you split up with 
your lad or girl, if you are very in love, for sure it affects your progress and your state of mind. 

The next point to take into account in this essay is problems suffered by university students. They 
share some problems with school students, like the exams, which are harder than school exams, 
they are very nervous as well when the exams come, and they also have personal problems like 
love or divorced parents and so on. But I personally believe that they have less problems than 
school students, because the majority of people who are in college are more mature than when 
they were in school,so they face problems in a mature way. And at least, university students study what they really like, more or less, but for example, if a school student like only arts or 
letters, he has to study maths, fisics and so on. But some university students have to pay by 
themselves the university, for his parents don't have enough money to pay it 
or whatever. In addition, another problem is that the teachers in the university demand much more 
than in the High School, so the first year of college is quite hard for the students, above all if they 
were in a private school. 

So then, we have seen the main problems which cause suffering to school students and university 
students. It is focused in two and principal problems: the exams that  they must face, which may 
make them feel nervous, above all when they have to pass "Selectividad"; and personal problems, 
which might be one of the main reasons of  the decreasing of their progress and state of mind. 
These personal problems may be problems with the parents, problems with friends or classmates or 
problems about  love. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable for school and university 
students to try to solve their own problems (personal or about exams) calmly, without 
turning to desperate measures. 

