In modern times abortion has been a very present and taken into account issue, 
and it has also caused a lot of arguments and different viewpoints. Nowadays 
many women choose abortion for many reasons, as some of them are too young, 
they do not have enough money to look after their babies, and they may think it 
doesn't matter to abort as the fetus it is not considered as a human being. 
Considering different researches, surveys and other people's viewpoints, in this 
essay I intend to discuss the issue of abortion objectively.

First of all, there are people who are in favor of abortion, and they consider that 
abortion is a right and parents can decide about their children's life. Some people 
would argue that the fetus is not a human being, as it has no social attachments, 
no identity, no language, nothing till it is born. The problem with this argument is 
that even though the fetus is not considered as a human being, it is alive, and it 
has been suggested that it has the right of keep on living. In addition they believe 
that abortion is not the Government's bussiness, it is not his choice; it is the 
mother's choice, it is her dilemma, her responsibility, not the Government's or 
anyone else; parents should have freedom to make a decision about whether they 
want to abort or not. And if the mother is not allowed to abort, the child will be a 
non-desired son, which it will be very bad for the kid, who will probalby not be 
loved. This point is rather convincing, but it seems reasonable feel that it's not the 
kid's fault, and although he is an non-desired son, he must be loved.

Next, some people might claim that if the mother is too young and she does not 
have enough economic resources in order to support her child by herself (as the 
father does not recognize his son or whatever), or she has been raped, she should 
be allowed to have an abortion. This argument seems to make sense, because it is 
probably that without enough money, being too young or raped, the girl could not 
support or bring up him. Finally, some writers believe that if the fetus shows some 
anomaly or mental deficiency, the mother also has the right to abort. This seem a 
not very logical argument, since aborting only because the fetus shows some 
anomaly could be considered as an unfairness, as a kid with some mental 
deficiency has the same rights as a normal kid for living. 

On the other hand, there are those who believe that abortion is a crime, they are 
against abortion, and many of them are religious people. The general feeling of the 
religious people is that the unborn child is human, and its life is valuable. They also 
believe that God is the only being who can decide about our lives and decide our 
fate. And the Christian Church consider abortion as a homicide, murder, because 
the fetus is alive, so killing it is like killing another person who is 15 years old, for 
example. This point is rather convincing, although it seems to be that it is not 
exactly the same killing a fetus than killing a 15 year-old child, as the child has 
identity, legal status etc. And perhaps the fetus has rights, but it grows within a 
woman's body, who has rights as well, and she can also decide about her body. 

However, there are people who are in favor of abortion in some specific cases. It 
can be argued that if a 12 year-old kid is raped and she
become pregnant, in this extremely case the kid should have an abortion.This 
seem a logical argument since she is too young and it is not her fault, and this kid 
may have some mental disorder after the rape, and if she had to support the baby, 
it would be worse for the girl and for the baby as well. Another point to consider is 
the opinion of those who believe that a woman should be abort when she is going 
to give birth a hemophiliac girl (hemophilia is a medical condition that causes 
severe bleeding from even a slight injury because the blood fails to clot normally). 
This could be considered a realistic perspective, since when the girl is 12 or 13 
years old, she'll die, because she will have the period and when she begins to lose 
blood because of the period, she will lose so much blood that she will die 
inevitably. But of course these people reject abortion in the rest of the cases, such 
as when the fetus has a mental deficiency, or when simply the mother does not 
have it as she does not like children or whatever. This argument seems difficult to 
deny.

To sum up, we can see there are many arguments both defending and condemning abortion. 
Some of them deal with the rights of women to choose whether their babies die or not, 
and others such as the Catholic Church deal with the idea that abortion is wrong in all 
cases, and God is the only who can decide our destiny. Others defend abortion in just some 
specific cases, as when the woman is raped or when the woman is going to have a 
hemophilliac girl. Considering all these points, one possible solution to reduce 
abortion might to be the prevention of the pregnancies in the first place. If birth 
control is available and used, and if women who absolutely don't want children can 
get sterilized, there will be fewer abortions. Another way to reduce it may be 
improve social structures and attitudes, and help the mothers with unwanted  
pregnancies and so on.







