Times are changing. We appreciate an evolution of the world's 
mind, a development in order and laws; example of 
modernity. Crossing over the tradition, people fights for 
freedom and equality, without exceptions. In this case we 
deal with the homosexual marriage and the things it follows. 
Like all minoritys, the gay community had problems with 
acceptation in the society. But now, it seems that their 
intention of being accepted is going better than ever. 
Repeated manifestations all over the world expressing their 
wishes are getting them very strong. They are getting what 
they want: the same rights as the heterosexuals...
Why can't they get married?
Why can't they adopt children like everybody can?


When you are young, your parent tell you that you must have 
a job and a wife/husband for the establishment of your 
life...But this is not as easy as it seems. Homosexuals have 
just obtained their right to practise marriage, but in some 
places it's still forbidden. What it is forbidden? To show their 
love is forbidden.
This problem is similar to racism and the place of the woman 
in society.
Conventions tell us that a men loves a woman, they marriage, 
they have children, they build their life...So, a men who loves 
a men, can't get married, can't have children and can't be 
accepted by the society, they can't live their life as they 
wanted!
It's a big contradiction, because in both situations we are 
talking about humans, persons...and wasn't everybody equal 
face to the law? Mo. It's a dramatic fact in our times, the gay 
community has been waiting for years, only to be free to show 
their love. Because, first, what is marriage? A demonstration 
of love and fidelity between two humans who love each other; 
so, where is the problem?


Religious and conservatives don't accept the love freedom. 
They are scared, scared of the changes that this fact will 
bring. Two of the biggest influences of the world, The Vatican 
and the president of the U.S.A don't want the homosexual 
community to exist.
For them, it would the end for the families. For example, they 
think that a son of a lesbian marriage would have problems 
of relation, integration and education. Their problem is that 
they are closed minded.
They can't open their minds to a world where homosexuals 
are not hidden. Homosexual imply horror in these 
communities, that can be called fanatics.
They have a strict sense of morality, a conservative ideology, 
which established a certain social order. (Women with men, 
never different).
They talk of homosexuality as a disease, something 
depraved...Whereas some heterosexual practices are much 
more perverse and indignant...(sadism, masochism).
Even their influence, conservatives won't stop this revolution, 
they know it, that's why they are so horrified.

It's very important to see that the reforms for the homosexual 
community are not finished, and there are problems or voids. 
Like the economic benefits of the marriage or the adoption or 
conception of a child. For example, a partnership of women 
have a child by artificial insemination. If the woman who give 
birth to the child dies, her partner has no possession in this 
child...
Several elements of the law have to be modified and finished 
to arrive to the equality. Because the acceptation of 
homosexuals is just a question of equality, democracy and 
basic human dignity.

As a conclusion, I can say that my point of view is the same 
as the greater part of the world. It's just a simple act of 
tolerance to let homosexual community express their feelings 
as the heterosexuals. Both are humans and persons who 
want to live their life their way.
It's the road to the future, to the modernity, to the equality 
between humans.




