

The legalisation of Marijuana is a very conflictive theme; just 
because we got two clear factions: The people that can't 
accept this reform and the others who fights for the 
legalisation...and they doesn't come to a common solution.
Recents studys indicates that the consumption is growing 
between adults and young people, so it must take care of 
this.
What is clear is that Marijuana is a drug...we will confrontate 
the two aspects of this polemical legalisation.

Research suggests that the abnormal use produce serious 
damages in the human brain. It's a drug that since you 
consume you feel important effects, as the mind alteration, 
cardiovascular effects and termoregulation.
For the lung, the effect produced is much worse than a 
cigarette and we got the same problems: persistent cough, 
obstructions and the subjects have facilities to catch a cold, 
more than the rest of the people.
It gets problems for the reproductive system because of the 
infertility of the sperm of the subject.
The marijuana is very dangerous for drivers, because it 
affects the capacity of reflex, coordination, concentration, and 
it seems that these humans are the main characters of many 
accidents.
It has psiquiatric effects, psychological changes as the 
euphoria, anxiety, alteration of the colours perception.
Some people would argue that it produces a deterioration of 
the fortress of the mind, and that it always gets to the other 
drugs...

As the doctor Mario Quijada (President of the Chile society of 
Mental health) points out, there is a direct relation between 
supply and demand of the drug. If the drug exist, it would be 
consumed. This doctor seems to believe that the fact that this 
drug exist only will favour the increase of consumption, of 
drug addicts and that the legalisation will be a backward 
mouvement for the politics who fights for the illegalisation. 
Ronaldo Laranjeiro of the Federal Sao Paolo University alerts 
about the rise of the concentration of the active substance of 
Marijuana (THC, tetrahidrocanabinol). He claims that the 
Marijuana of nowadays is not the same as in the sixties, so 
we can't ignore this like in the past.
He maintains that the chronic users are apathetic and 
desinterested and that it implies a loss of the capacity of 
concentration and memory...
The therapeutic Marijuana is legal only in some places of 
Canadá, Haway, Holland, and it's on the way in some states 
of the USA. We have explained one faction in this theme, 
we've got the other, with less influence but fighting...


Nowadays, the vision of the illegal drugs is more elaborated 
and demanding. We know that is a fault to think that 
Marijuana improve to yield. Whereas, it's a fault too to 
consider that this attacks the brain and become the subject 
immediately to other drugs.
This drug is not completely inoffensive, but even the police 
comtemplates the possibility of the legalisation. 
Many people knows that in Holland, this drug has been sold 
since years in the coffees and we don't see the social chaos 
caused by this drug...
Many people believe that only the politics can't think about 
the possibility of the reform. Some extracts from the 
magazine "New Scientist"affirm that this drug is less harmful 
than alcohol and tobacco...
Many people feel that the consumption could help to an 
artistic function, like playing music, painting, writing...would 
help to open the mind.

In our times we know that we don't hook to this drug with the 
first joint, but we know that the usual use of this drug find 
the dependency of the subject.
The risk is how usually you take this drug and the 
concentration of THC in the Marijuana used. The legalisation 
is very difficult to attack. Both aspects have reasonable 
reasons but they are incompatibles...
