

Marijuana is the most consumed illicit drug around the world. Its use is considerably 
increasing the risk of other illegal drugs' consumption. The latest national study about it, 
carrying out on 2002, pointed out that a 28% of marijuana's consumers didn't 
understand life without use it and that three out of every four drugs' users consume 
marijuana. Here in Spain, illegal susbstance's use, though forbidden, doesn't represent a 
crime, whatever the reason for the consumption, including therapeutic one, is. However, 
it is considered as a crime the drug traffic, that means, buying and selling to other 
people. That's why consumers resort to the strategy of personal self- crop aimed at 
supplying. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the legalisation of 
marijuana and its consequences.

Some people argue that soft drugs, like marijuana, are innocuous, that means, they are 
not alarming products, or at less, not at all. Around marijuana there are several urban 
leyend which try to justify the consumption of this drug, such as 'joints clean our lungs', 
and so forth. Another supporting idea to get the marijuana's legalisation is that it can 
soothe pain, although there are other medicaments with the same effect and less harmful. 

Moreover, it is reasonable to argue that the fact of denying the legalisation is against 
personal rights, like doing and choosing. John Stuart Mill said in 19th Century that 
<Q>.

This arguments seem quite convincing but, fortunately or not, recent studies has 
checked that marijuana increases the risk of catching lung cancer, for several reasons: 
this drug has a component (THC) that reduces the body's capacity of fighting against 
tumours; and it has effects in our immunological system, that, added to the big 
quantities of far and other carcinogenic agents, favours the risk of cancer. Furthermore, 
it affects on brain's operation, hurting an area linked to within-a-short-time memory and 
to the learning skill. Not to mention increasing heart frequency, which could move on 
tachycardia.

On the other hand, one of the main arguments in favour is that it could produce a fiscal 
base that would help eliminating public deficit. In fact, marijuana's market around the 
world is evaluated around $142 billion, where $70 billion a year is spent by European 
people. It's apparently true that the legalisation might involve a great blow to mafias 
that monopolize that business and in consequence, drug traffic would be reduced and 
with it, it would be reduced some other business, like weapons selling, which is 
connected with drug traffic.

However, some people point out that legalisation of marijuana would be harmful in 
many ways. First, it can be argued than consumers might take more drugs because they 
could get them cheaper, what would help people to be addicted to it, not only because of 
its components but also for its prize. Second, it could produce bad effects on children, 
who would grow up considering marijuana a normal reality, another part of daily life. 
This might produce people become users at an early age, although that could be 
controlled in order not to happen this. And finally, marijuana is considered a key drug, 
that makes easy go into drug's world.

In contrast, some people believe that legalisation is a good idea if there is some kind of 
control on the part of Governments. For example that Government controls where it is 
sold, who is the buyer and how much marijuana he buys. Unfortunately, that could be 
difficult, since a parallel illegal maket would appear, and control would be lost.

So then, there are different viewpoints concerning the legalisation of marijuana. The 
main arguments in favour are the fact that marijuana can be used as a medicine remedy 
and it would produce a fiscal base and decrease of drug traffic, and without legalisation, 
they would be outraged against personal rights. On the other hand, marijuana, as it was 
indicated, increases the risk of catching lung cancer, it produces immunological 
deficiency, it hurts a part of the brain, and so on. To sum up, legalisation of marijuana it 
could be dangerous for the society, linked to health, although it could have some 
advantages in the country's economy.
