
Some months ago, lesbians and gays didn't have the same right as heterosexual people 
linked to get married and adopt children. Now they are nearer "to be equal" as the 
others are. The Congress, in Spain, has passed a new law which allows homosexual 
people to get married. This has caused a big controversy between parties and civilians, 
even the Catholic Church takes part in this difficult matter. In this essay I will discuss 
some of the viewpoints in both sides.

Spain makes up a little group of countries which are in the vanguard of allowing 
homosexual people get married, together with Holland, Belgium, Denmark or Norway. 
That decision of permiting those marriage has provoked a hard reaction from the 
Catholic Church and conservative parties such as "Partido Popular". Alfonso López 
Trujillo, president of the Pontifical Council for the Family, has stated that this law is an 
injury for the faith and the moral. And he added that the Mankind has never seen that 
marriage hadn't been a love and life's union between a man and a woman. In my 
opinion, homosexual marriage are love's marriage too, such heterosexual are. However 
it is truth that this law involves a breaking-off with the custom taking yet so far. But, in 
any case, I think we can't come to a standstill in ancient customs.

That is not the only opinion against the new law. In spite of the fact that a 56'9% of 
Spanish people are in favour the homosexual marriage, there is a 32'2% that are against 
it, while a 10'9% N/R. Those results are from a survey carried out in October - 
November on 2004 by the Sociological Investigation Center. I personally agree with 
homosexual marriage, because they are persons like the others, and I think they have to 
get the same rights for it.

Another topic in connection with this is the right of adoption in those marriages. With 
the said law, it is recognized the child adoption for the gays and lesbians. It is argued 
children who grow up sorrounded gays and lesbians may have psychological problems. 
Mercedes Valcarce, a Psychology's professor at complutense University is agree with 
this piece of information, she thinks it isn't a good idea that children grow up in 
homosexual couples because they wouldn't have a sexual identity. On the other hand, 
Paulino Castells, Medicine P.H. and psychiatrist expert in family's themes declares that 
all people have the capacity to educate with love and tenderly, although he prefers an 
heterosexual couple to do it. I agree with him, everybody can look after and teach 
children, both women and men, because what a child need is love. Maybe, children who 
grow up with an homosexual family could provoke in them that they think people of the 
same sex together is the correct way of living, but even if they grow up with families 
with those charateristics, to be or not gay or lesbian is not depend on where you live, but 
your genes. The problem, personally speaking, are the other children.

When a child grows in a homosexual family, he/she will acquire respect to all people, 
either gays and lesbians or other social group, because he/she lives a situation, in my 
opinion, plenty of tolerance. However, at school, children, above all the youngest one, 
who think the normal in a family is one mother and one father, might laught at those 
who are growed with two "mums" or two "dads". Nevertheless, I think is better to grow 
up sorrounded with love that grow up in an orphanage. Consequently, we have to 
educate children in tolerance, in order not to scorn other people. If we, all people, would 
teach our children the real value of love, that there isn't only love between a man and a 
woman, but it can exist love between people with the same sex, now, we would't have 
these problems with the new law, because, everybody would respect the feelings of 
other people, independently of their sexual direction.

I'm sure at the beginning of 80's, when a lot of women were pregnant and were single 
mother, the Catholic Church, conservative parties and a lot of people looked 
unfavourably on that situation, like nowadays on the new law. In my view, changes are 
difficult to accept.

In conclusion, I think gay people should be allowed to get married and adopt children. 
First of all, they have to get the same rights as heterosexual people, and if they want to 
get married, they should do it. Secondly, they can perfectly educate and look after 
children as an heterosexual couple can do it.



