

    
    
    
    
           For hundred of years the human being has been a creature who is continously 
experimenting in many ways and one of these ways of experimentation is vinculated 
with the world of drugs. In our present society in which a considerable percentage of 
people takes drugs, the most taken  drug according to  the goverment's researches are 
soft drugs - especially cannabis or in this case Marijuana which is very common in  
many countries. It is a natural but ilegal drug in most countries (indeed in the USA the 
possesion of Marijuana is penalized with jail) although nowadays developed countries 
like Canada or Holland allow the consumption of Marijuana for determinated 
situations, for example as medicine. So that simple plant is being a point of discussion 
in a few countries (specially in Europe) where many people are fighting for its legality 
by  disclosing its benefits and other crowded groups that arer not agree with it are 
exposing possible problems. In this essay I am going to show the different arguments 
that people use concerning the legalisation of Marijuana.
   
       There are several arguments in favour the legalisation of Marijuana. Most 
smokers might argue that Marijuana  is not a drug or that if you can call it a drug it 
could compare it is a drug such as the majority of medicaments because medicaments 
are made of plenty chemical substances while Marijuana is totally natural, it is only a 
small seed. Even more natural than tobacco which has carbon monoxide and tar that 
could kill with a continous consumtion as Healthy Autorities state. Therefore some 
citizens maintain that Marijuana is not as harmful as many people belive only without 
a moderate consumption a smoker could have harmful effects such as paranoia. But it 
is just as coffe : if you drink too much coffee you will have problems like anxiety 
among others. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain 
weakness beacuse coffe in this case do not have the same effects as Marijuana and it is 
less stronger.
       
       One of the main arguments in favour it according to many population is the 
world of traffic. As it is an illegal drug it is known that a big market which moves a lot 
of money exists. But recent researches asserts that with the legalitation of Marijuana 
and soft drugs the problem of traffic will dissapear because the Marijuana would be a 
legal substance that everybody could cultivate at home or buy it in special shops as in 
the present with tobacco and people would not have to go to clockers to get it, indeed 
it would be cheaper than nowadays. This seems a logical  argument because traffic 
won't be something profitable to dealers so there will be no traffic and no black 
money

       In the other hand the general view is that soft drugs like Marijuana are very 
dangerous beacuse it has been suggested that soft drugs are just the first step in a 
mortal stair along the world of drugs. Many people feel that a person who begins to 
smoke Marijuana is inevitably increasing the probability that in the future will take 
other drugs stronger and more dangerous than Marijuana. So according to that, 
someone who chooses to smoke Marijuana will end up taking cocaine. For that 
rerason many people called Marijuana a "hook drug" beacuse they assert that it is the 
first drug that everybody tastes but then it hooks you in that world of drugs leading to 
others. This point is rather convincing but Richard J. Deniss shows that  is not true, 
indeed totally the opposite: since the legalisation of Marijuana in 70s in Holland the 
percentage of heroin addicts has descended. Separete that not everybody who 
consumes drugs begins with Marijuana - it is only a personal choice, something pretty 
personal.
      
       Another point against the legalisation as Dr. Robert Heath suggest is that 
Marijuana is of course a drug and therefore it produces some effects to the consumer, 
in this case bad side - effects in the human brain; and is an addictive substance. Recent 
studies indicate that the plant contains THC the substance which creates dependency 
in the human brain. For both arguments a high percentage of population say that if  
Marijuana would be legal the cities would be a chaos beacuse many people would 
smoke and there would be a lot of urban accidents by the consumers of Marijuana and 
they would be totally addict to it. This point is perhaps very weak beacuse Dr Heath's 
studies were very poor, he only experimented with a group of four monkeys obtaining 
few results. Besides not all the consumers take Marijuana in big amounts, so the 
effects are not as worisome as many people belive, it is the same problem as the 
alcohol: people choose to drink more or less alcohol and both the accidents and the 
addiction depends on the responsability of the consumers.
      
      Some studies claims the legalisation in a medical way. It has been suggested 
according to many studies, that THC (the psychoactive substance of Marijuana) is 
very powerfull in reducing some illnesses and it is very positive for people who are 
under cancer treatment. Smoking Marijuana reduces the patients negative effects 
caused by the treatment such as nauseous, headaches, vomits, etc. Some researchers 
say that it is also beneficial for other illnesses and especially for avoiding strong pains. 
Some doctors maintain that a person who has strong aches in his leg for example 
could reduce even clear that ache by smoking determinated amounts of Marijuana. 
This could be a realistc perspective because the legalisation only would affect in the 
medical scope, and only in pretty concrete cases, so apparently there would be no 
problem becasue doctors would only prescribe it to people who really could need 
Marijuana.

       To sum up, there are many arguments concerning the legalisation of Marijuana. 
The main arguments in favour are: the topic about the trafficking and the possibility of 
avoiding this, that soft drugs are as dangerous as tabacco or coffe (for example) and 
the possibilities of a medical legalisation. On the other hand legalisation perhaps 
produces accidents by the consumers, and it is belived that Marijuana is a hook-drug. 
On balance, it seems difficult to reach a conclussion but the legalisation of Marijuana 
may be seen as a good idea but only in concrete situations: in terms of medicine, 
because it could be beneficial in rerducing many illnesses and only under medical 
allowance. And also a legalisation under a responsability although this seems very 
complicated, only selling Marijuana to adults not teenager and smoking it in special 
places like coffe shop or similars not bothering anyone and respecting those who 
surround them.



Adrián Líndez González.



   
   
    
