

        In our present society there are some basic things that a prestigious city 
needs, one of these are means of transport. Any developed city as Madrid must 
have a good organisation of transport to move around the city without any 
problem. Nice roads, good links between different kinds of transport, cheap 
fares.., all are vital to create a perfect city. However, nowadays a high percentage 
of people who live in capital cities (like in this case Madrid) decide to use their 
own cars to move around the city instead of using the public transport creating 
what has become one of the biggest problems: dense traffic. Due to this, studies 
have shown that in the present time citizens identify traffic as an important 
problem to be solved in their daily life and they are anxious to view solutions. 
Therefore, in this essay I will suggest some solutions to reduce de traffic in 
Madrid.

       First of all, in general people of Madrid is used to believed that the car is the 
faster mean of transport but can be totally opposite although it is very 
independent. So I feel that the first step to reduce traffic in Madrid is to change 
this perception and the election of drivers. I think that the City Halls should show 
to citizens that the car is not the best one and inform about the advantages of the 
public transport. First of all it is very cheap, you do not have to spend a lot of 
money in oil or in repair any breakdown, which in some cases are very expensive, 
you only need to buy a monthly ticket that you can use both for the bus and for 
the underground. In addition, is does not pollute as much as your own car because 
nowadays exists ecological buses in Madrid which do not damage the environment 
with gases according to the environment council of Madrid. In addition, users do 
not have any responsabilities as if they drive a car, for example to park which in 
my opinion is too difficult in Madrid. Another advantage is if you choose the 
underground you know that probably (if there is not any failure) you will not be 
late because there is no traffic. And finally public transport is possibly safer, 
because the majority of bus drivers, taxi drivers... have better skills of driving and 
more experience than a normal one. In the other hand some people who use public 
transport in Madrid could be not very satisfied with the timetables, because at 
night, from twelve o clock until six o clock in the morning, the underground closes 
and the bus schedule is a bit limited. But the Transport Council offers a night 
service of buses called "nocturnos" around all the city which works between these 
hours. So in my own view there is no problem to reduce the traffic in that way.

       In the other hand, I strongly believe that traffic depends in the time of the year 
or the season and it seems that everybody knows where the conflict point of traffic 
is and the main places where the traffic is dense and slow. I would argue that 
ministry may invest in preparing that roads with too traffic or build better freeways 
to have a faster car circulation without excess of traffic. However madrileños are 
displeased with street works because normally it creates many conflicts since it 
cuts the cars circulation around the place of the reform, that often are main roads, 
so it plug the city generating more and more traffic. I tend to believe that the 
ministry must reform roads little by little in dates when there aren't no many cars, 
because as I said before there are studies that show us the months which have less 
traffic than other ones, such as August when a high percent of people are on 
holidays and the city is a bit empty with no many cars, so then the street works 
would bother only a few people and then citizens would be pleased with faster and 
safer roads, and less traffic.

       To conclude we have seen that traffic in Madrid is an important problem with 
a solution and this essay has offered some ways to avoid or reduce it. I think that 
unless the government takes part in the problem and promotes public transport or 
builds new roads, there will not only always be traffic but more and more pollution 
with car gases, and acoustic contamination by motor and horn noises. Indeed I 
believe cars must not be allowed to circulate in the centre of the city, only public 
transport as bus, underground or taxis. And this would be beneficial to all of us 
because there would not be excess of traffic and Madrid would have a better and 
less polluted environment. So, if we want a great city I feel that politicians are the 
most indicated to achieve this.













