

Immigration has been an historical issue all around the world.Especially, Spain is 
considered one of the eropean countries more affected nowadays by this 
phenomenon. The most of the immigrants come from european countries; almost 
the 22.5%, and the 80% come from countries with a lower cultural level compared 
with Spain. In general, work and a better way of live are the most important factors 
that make people immigrate. It appears that there are a lot of similarities with the 
culture between Spain and the rest of european countries, so immigrants 
considered that Spain is an easy way to achieve what they want. Mostly of 
immigrant do not want to live here, they just want to save money to send it to their 
country, and return the more rapidly to their country.

Firstly we have to mention that to immigrate is not as easy as people think, is all 
closed to money and the economical resouerces of the person who immigrate, they 
normally spent a lot of time because, almost 5 years to get  the resident or work 
permit. During this five years the immigrant has to find work, and only if he/she 
spend a period of 4 years working, then they will get the permit, if they lost it they 
will become "illegals". Because of these more than the 50% of the immigrants that 
stays in Spain for lees than 5 years are illegal, though they have had a work in the 
past, that is way they have to accept works in worst conditions. Apart from what I 
said before, the most of them lack work contract.

Secondly I would like to explain the different opinions of the spanish people about 
immigration: the most thought, in the year 2001, that they were many, and 
although there are some people that also think that immigration is positive for our 
country, most of the people would claim that the ones who has to be permited to 
come are the ones who have work contract, and if they have to choose between the 
illegal ones they will choose the ones who come from south america before than to 
choose an east eropean immigrant or an african. There are a lot of suspicious 
citizens about immigrants, almost the 45.5% .

According to live together, it doesn't seem very easy because the lack of trust from 
spanish citizens as we said before. But it is also true that a 46% argue that they 
don't make any differneces between them or us. These fact is maybe the cause of 
the thought that the delinquency has increase with the massive arrive of 
immigrants. Against all this negatives facts we found that an 80% wouldn't mind 
to sare school classes with immigrants, and between 97-89% wouldn't mind also to 
have them in their blocks as neighbours. About the thoughts of the young people, 
they are less tolerant to immigration, they think that they are a lot and they gave 
the country much more disadvantages than advantages. Against this, almost the 
70% denies violence against them, and the relation with them is divided between 
indiference and supicious thoughts.

To finish we have to remember that every body has immigrate in any way from 
one place to another, and though we are in the 21 century spanish people is too 
suspicious with immigrantion, specially with the ones who come from east eropean 
countries. The solution to this general view is to mke normal and to accept that 
immigration is a reality we have to live with, and the acceptation of their culture, 
and to accept universal laws to live together is the better way to accept it according 
to the most of the people. The acceptation an the good behaviour between the 
society is a very important challenge for the future.

