

If we make a short reflection about homosexual marriage law and the meaning that it 
has had in the few last years, we can also recognize similar reactions to other passed 
laws like abortion or other example more known, divorce. This shows us that is posible 
to accept new changes and to help  people who need the same rigths that any other 
person has, but in some case they do not have because of the ignorance of a minority. 
Nowadays we are not able to realized how important for the future is to accept this kind 
of little serious points of view. I personally believe that is essencial to dedicate a piece 
of our thoughts to make our society more free and democratic.

Firstly, in my opinion, a law that grant rights to whom did not have it, that turn 
exclusive situations into comun and daily, and integrate different realities in comun 
live, will always be a big advance for our social growth, though it means a change of 
our historical traditions, because maybe most of those traditions are the ones that forbid 
those necessary rights. "Do you think that gay people should be allowed [...]?" I not 
only definitely think that they should, but also they are allowed to be free in the way a 
heterosexual could be. The easiest way of thought about gay collective has always been 
as a psychological illness or in many cases a very dangerous desease. Also it is thought 
that it can be posible to recover  gay people into normal people. This is not from 
ancient times, it is a normal reaction of some important institutions, like Christianity. I 
consider that it could be one of the most important insulator of the gay people, and if 
we think about all the people who is true to Catholic Church, we could have an idea 
aobout what this has suposed. Religious feelings, in my opinion, has nothing to do with 
sexual tendency, is something much more important, there are also many other 
important themes to predicate.

In the other hand, we have the scientific investigations about homosexual tendency, 
who 15 years ago, deny the posibility of being an illness. Also marriage is not so 
important for a society as we used to think, as well it does not matter between whom  it 
is, this won't changed in any case the rights of anybody else, it won't affect in that 
sense. If  we talk about adoption, we will have the same problem, people who think that 
it is not natural between to people of the same sex, people who think that it could be 
dangerous for the children, etc. It maybe result strange to our eyes, I think that in 
general, Spain is not prepared to asume all those changes as many countries of Europe, 
but we have to try it. It necessary for those who are gays and are fighting against 
mayority, for those who don't but want a better world to live in, for those who are still 
living under the military dictatorship.

Turning back to adoption, we have to realize that it is more important to cover children 
necessities than try to give them a "normal family", but who has a "normal family"? 
Who is allowed to clasificate into normal or anormal? Who is able to make a difference 
between what is right or rong to educate? There are many divorced marriage, there are 
many children with divorced parents, ther are many children who doesn't have father or 
mother, or brothers or sisters; there are many children who doesn't have a thing. We 
have to give oportunities to all who didn't ever have it. For a little chinese girl whose 
future is no future, it doesn't matter with whom is she going to live, is much more 
important the capacity of those parents who want to feed an educate her. Instead of 
thinking about what is rong or right, we have to take care about the necessity of all 
those people who need trust, in this case gay people who are fighting for their rights.

There are many studios and investigations about the reaction of children grown up in 
gays enviroments, and they proove that there is not found yet an important evidence 
who make us think that is not posible, or an evidence who make a clear diference 
between other families. Those investigations mentioned are from the EE.UU since 20 
years ago, recently in Spain we are reaching almost the same conclusion: it is necessary 
to change the law and to give them the right of adoption and marriage, the 
spichological investigation about adoption between a couple of the same sex does not 
implicate any kind of problem to the childhood or something terribly harmful for them, 
they are cheering up teachers, sexual educators and people in general to educate 
children in a way that can admit, live, and accept homosexual relationship as any other. 

In conclusion, it is clear from my point of view that marriage and adoption of and 
between gay people is a thick wall we have to broke down. It is necessary for all of us 
to permit and let people live their own life without  marking them because of their 
feelings. It's daily demonstrate, there are no differences between one or other marriage, 
they are not damaging, they are only asking for something that belong to them, they are 
fighting for their rights like everybody has done. Homosexual tendency is not a trend 
for the las few years, it is a reality that we have to accept and we have to live with, and 
is very important to reach the equallity for all citizens, homosexual aceptation is not a 
problem for a minority, it could be the solution for many other problems.
