
   Gays all over the world are fighting for equal protection under the law, including legal 
gay marriage and adoption . The Spanish government has approved a draft law which will 
legalise homosexual marriages. The bill gives same sex couples the same rights as 
heterosexual couples, including the right to adopt children. The Roman Catholic Church 
and conservative opposition have fiercely opposed the move, which opinion polls suggest 
has the public's support. If the bill is approved by parliament, it will make Spain the third 
EU country to authorise gay marriages.  In this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, gay 
people should be allowed to get married and adopt children, however we intend to focus on 
the rigth to adopt children.
   Some people feel that gay people do not have stable or long relationships, as a result 
they should not get married, and of course, they should not be allowed to adopt children. 
However, in my view marriage is a basic human right and an individual personal choice. 
Coupling tends naturally towards monogamy, and alleviates the continual sexual pressures 
of promiscuity. Coupling, especially when it's recognized and celebrated by parents, friends 
and associates; as happens in a regular ceremony of marriage; give people a sense of  
security and safety in their relationship.
   I believe same sex couples also should have equal rights to adopt children. I think 
everyone deserves the right to have children if they want a family with their partner in life, 
regardless of sexual preference. There are plenty of heterosexual couples who shouldn't be 
allowed to have kids and plenty of gay couples who would make perfect parents. Being gay 
should not change who a person is, and therefore should not change the way they are seen 
by society. Gay couples can give good educacion and a lovely home to children, because 
they have the same obligations as other persons and they make them effectively.
On the other hand it could be argued that gay couples should not be allowed to adopt a 
child because they will hurt them psychologically. Some people fell that those children are 
going to have a lot of trouble with the other children who have heterosexual parents, 
moreover, they will be embarrassed to have gay parents. Then the other children are going 
to make fun of them. That is going to be very frustrating; after that, they are going to have 
some other problems for example: depression, low self-esteem, stress, and insecurity. 
Nevertheless, I would suggest that first, researchers estimate that the total number of 
children living with at least  one gay parent ranges from six to 14 millions. Second,  a 
person's sexual orientation cannot be the basis for ending or limiting parent-child 
relationships unless it is demonstrated that it causes harm to a child. To conclude,  there is 
no evidence to suggest that the children of lesbian and gay parents are less intelligent, 
suffer from more problems, are less popular, or have lower self steem than children of 
heterosexual parents. 
       So then, this essay has considered that gay couples should have the same legal 
rights and benefits as heterosexual couples. First, we have seen that same sex couples 
should be allowed to get married, because marriage is a basic human rigth regardless of 
sexual orientation and marriage tends towards monogamy. Second, I have argued that good 
parenting is not influenced by sexual orientation. Rather, it is influenced most profoundly 
by a parent's ability to create a loving and nurturing home, an ability that does not depend 
on whether a parent is gay or straight. 









