Nowadays the legalisation of Marijuana is a topic of heated debate the world over. 
Marijuana is the common name for a drug made from the dried leaves and flowering tops of 
the Indian hemp plant Cannabis sativa. Popularly Known as "pot", "grass", "reefer", and 
"Mary Jane", marijuana is smoked or chewed for its intoxicating and hallucinogenic 
effects, and it has also been used as a sedative and analgesic. Most countries consider 
marijuana and illegal substance, but individual countries vary on how they prosecute the 
use and possession of marijuana. Some countries tolerate some forms of    marijuana 
possession and consumption, while others impose small fines or harsher punishment. In this 
essay I am going to show the different perspectives that people use concerning the 
legalisation of marijuana.

It could be argued  that the legalisation of marijuana will decrease the violent crime 
associated with drug dealers  if the herb is readily available. In this way, the legalisation of 
marijuana will eliminate the need of an underground subculture. With this decrease in 
crime the money spent on police could be put to better use, and legalizing marijuana allows 
police to focus on violent crimes. These arguments are strong because the traffic of drugs 
would be reduced and others kind of crimes associated with drug dealers would be 
eliminated.

Some people argue that no one has ever died from smoking marijuana. From their point of 
view,  marijuana is less harmful than tobacco or alcohol. This products are readily available 
everywhere you go while marijuana is only available at the black market because it isn't 
legal substance. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses 
because it is demostrated that marijuana are harmful to health and causes lung cancer as 
tobacco or alcohol can produce.

Some people would agree with the legalisation of marijuana only for therapeutic purposes.      
Research suggests that marijuana has medical values. Marijuana has shown every 
indication of having important medicinal qualities. Some possible medical uses of 
marijuana are: antiemetic activity with chemotherapy, increase appetite, decrease pain 
sensation, anticonvulsant and many others in patients with cancer or AIDS. 

On the other hand, some people point out that the legalisation of marijuana would be 
harmful in many ways. First, legalisation of marijuana will make the drug readily available 
to the young people. Second, it can be argued that marijuana is a doorway drug to harsher 
more dangerous drugs use. These arguments are rather persuasive, however, people who 
are predisposed to use drugs and have the opportunity to use drugs are more likely than 
others to use both marijuana and harder drugs, and marijuana typically comes first because 
is cheaper than harder drugs.

One of the main and strongest arguments against legalisation of marijuana is that,  while 
marijuana intoxication last two to three hours, the active ingredient in marijuana can 
accumulate in fatty tissues, incluiding the brain and testes. Adverse effects from marijuana 
use include decreased coordination, epithelial damage to the lungs, increased risk of 
infection, cardiovascular effects and cognitive deficits. Unexplained behavior changes, 
altered social relationships and poor performance at school or work can signify a drug 
problem. Treatment requires a combination of education, social support, drug monitoring 
and attention to comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions. 

So then, there are many arguments concerning the legalisation of marijuana. The main 
arguments in favour are the reduction of violent crimes associated with the traffic and 
consumption of drugs, that marijuana has the same effects on our health as tobacco, and the 
therapeutic use of marijuana. On the other hand, legalisation could be dangerous for young 
people because marijuana might be a doorway drug to harder drugs and marijuana produces  
central nervous system diseases, depression and many others adverse effects. In conclusion, 
the legalisation might be seen as a good idea only for therapeutic purposes, however, 
people could have the right to consume marijuana because they are free to choose.




  
