              
            
       Nowadays there are many traffic problems in madrid.That problems have increassed a lot in 
recent years.And there aren`t so serious as in New york for example but are important.In this 
essay i intend to focus on which are the solutions for traffic problems and how can we resolve 
them.
 
      I will firstly explain which are the most important problems.One of the principal facts that 
readers should know is that Madrid has a population of about five million inhabitants and that 
population is increassing.And there's no doubt that if population increasses the number of cars 
increasses too.
      In the last 30 years the number of cars has increassed a lot especially in Madrid.In 1968 there 
was 250.000 cars in Madrid but in 1983 more than one million and now there are nearly two 
million.
      That car's increasse is not only because of the population.It is also because the society is 
becoming more independent and their necessities are changing.In 1974 only the 34'5% of families 
have one car but in 1996 the 50% of families have one.

      We know one of the most important fact is the population but other important fact is that there 
are about one million people who come everyday from the outskirts.That people usually gets up at 
6 in the morning to come here to work because they take a long time to get to their jobs because of 
the traffic jams, which usually at the entrances of this big city.

      Now we know the situation is horrible but i'm going to suggest some solutions to solve or 
reduce the traffic problems in the capital.There are two kinds of solutions, things that people can 
do and things that the government can do.Things that people can do are for example: people work 
in the same area could go together in the same car.Imagine four friends going in the same car , 
they only drive one car instead four.That might reduce some traffic problems.
      Also people might take the bus,the train or the underground.But do you really think people 
prefers take the bus or any public transport? I think the government should improve public 
transport because it isn't very well.If the government improve public transport many people will 
leave their cars and they 'll catch the bus,the train or the underground.I think that's a good 
solution.
    Govenrment could increase the number of buses and thier routes.And also increase their 
frequency.They could make it more confortable and spacious too.But the problem is that if 
government improve it, probably it will be more expensive than now,and i think now is quite 
expensive.

    Other solution could be put more bikes areas for people who want to go work by bike.And not 
just to go work, also people can go to the center by bike if they want , like in Amsterdam,Florencia 
and many cities in the south-west of asia like Hong Kong or Shanghai.Imagine in Hong Kong 
everybody gonig to work by car! it sounds horrible!.

  Government also could put more roads around the city to avoid traffic jams.It can also restrict the 
access to the center by car like in London.So people will go to the center only by public 
transport.By this way there will be less cars circulating around the center.

   I'm convinced the government will take a long time to resolve the problem because i' admit the 
solutions are not so easy.To conclude it only remains to add that to resolve the traffic problems is 
necessary not only the government cooperation but olso people cooperation.
       


