
  Nowadays, since some countries have started to pass a law which allows 
gay couples to get married in the same conditions as heterosexual couples, 
there has been a lot of controversy among the different opinions of the 
social groups, specially in everything which is related to the right of 
adoption. Spain has been the third country in Europe, following the 
example of Belgium and Holland, which has passed the law, as a bill of the 
current PSOE government, in response of the long petitions of the gay 
lobby, who claimed its rights, above all those of marriage and adoption, but 
which has caused the rejection of some other groups, such as the opposite 
party, the PP, the Catholic Church, or the Foro Español de la Familia. 
Focusing it in the case of Spain and analysing the different opinions, I will 
try to explain my own view of this situation, which is in favour of the 
recognition of gay couples rights, including adoption, and as a member of a 
family who knows the process of adopting a child.

  Throughout history, homosexuals have been discriminated in many 
aspects, not only socially but also, above all, legally because of their 
practically absence of rights. It's an issue that has been present since the 
civilization began, but which has been hindered by lots of external factors, 
such de appearance of the AIDS's problem, which was called the "illness 
of homosexuals" for many years, and it brought about the aversion from 
part of the society, due to the ignorance of the real dangers and 
consequences involved in this disease, and the fears it produced. Today we 
know that gays have not necessary AIDS, and that they are not different, 
and as they are human beings, members of a democratic system, and 
citizens, I consider they must have the same rights as the rest of the people, 
and if they want  to have their relationships recognized legally, they must 
be able to do it, so I think they should be allowed to enjoy an inheritance, 
pensions, or the possibility of being parents by adopting. As María Teresa 
de la Vega, the government's vice-president, said, I agree that the new law 
ends with centuries of discrimination, and it provides them important 
options for the future.

  However, there are some groups that don't agree with this new situation. 
First of all, the opposite party, the PP, proposed a law which permits the 
existence of homosexual marriages, but doesn't allow them to adopt 
children. I consider this aspect as a big fault because these couples, as 
couples legally recognized by the Law, have the same right to educate, give 
love and look after a child as his/her parents, and if they don't have it, they 
are deprived of one important human right, so here is another way of 
discrimination, trying to be fraud.

  In a similar way, the Catholic Church doesn't accept these marriages, and 
with the Foro Español de la Familia, considers the possibility of adoption 
by homosexual people as unacceptable, which it says openly. In this way 
the Catholic Church discriminates gay people while they only left 
homosexual couples the possibility of having a civil wedding, although 
more than one of these couples could believe as much as other in the 
catholic religion. I think that a religion should not reject someone in that 
way, as I consider that our sexual preferences are something very different 
to our religious believes. It could cause a problem for the children in the 
future, as if when they grew up, they wanted to belong to one religion, 
specially if it is that religion which rejected their parents.

  These tree groups, with others, organized a demonstration in protest for 
the passing of the law. Their arguments are that more than the middle of the 
Spanish population doesn't agree with the law, and that having a 
homosexual parents can be a psychological trauma for the children. 
However, the surveys say that almost the 70% of the Spanish population 
considers that the homosexuals must have the same rights as the 
heterosexuals have, and more than the 60% approves their marriages. 
Besides, experts such as María del Mar González, a psychology's professor 
of the Sevilla's University, is responsible of the first study about the child 
and teenager development in homosexual families, which says that there 
are no significant differences between the homosexual and heterosexual 
couples with regard to the breeding of children. Furthermore, the home 
environment was stable and the children doesn't present different problems 
that other children could have. It shows that a homosexual couple can play 
the role of parents as well as a heterosexual do. I totally agree with it, 
because I think that being good parents doesn't depend on the sexual 
preferences of each one.

  At least, I will speak about the process of adoption. On the one hand, I 
know by experience it is not a simple process, because the couple or the 
person who want to adopt must gather some requisites and must be 
evaluated by a psychologist and a social assistant, who determines, 
specially, if the family's environment is appropriate for receiving a child. 
Everyone who starts the process of adoption has to go through it, neither 
heterosexual nor homosexual couples can avoid it. On the other hand, a 
orphaned child will be always better in a family who looks after him than 
in the loneliness and abandon suffered in an orphanage. I'm aware of the 
lack of emotion that a child has in these conditions, and I think a gay 
couple can cover them as well as a heterosexual couple can, they can give 
love, a nice family where the child can integrate him/herself, a education, 
friends and definitely, a better environment than the orphanages present. I 
know the things could go wrong once the child were with his/her new 
family, but in a different way the things would go if the child fell in family 
with alcoholic or drugs problems, or with a future-divorced couple. As I 
said in the last paragraph, I think being parents has nothing to be with being 
heterosexual or homosexual, it's something everyone can do and it's 
learned by ourselves little by little.

  To sum up, the issue of homosexual marriages is provoking a lot of 
polemic around it. Some people agree with them, and some other don't, 
while a little number of countries are starting to pass the law which allows 
gay people to get married, giving them the possibility of adopting children. 
I agree with this law as I consider they must have the same rights as the rest 
of the people and should not be discriminated anyway. The unique problem 
I see in the case of Spain is that the national adoption is almost stopped, 
and the only two things gay marriages could do are add their nouns at the 
long wait lists, and spent years waiting for a response, or go to the 
international adoption. Here comes the real problem, because I'm not sure 
that every country will admit to give in adoption a child to a homosexual 
couple, and if they do it, if they will not prefer giving him/her to a 
heterosexual couple before than a gay one. But as I'm aware of this, I 
believe in little by little will be accepting all over the world, and I think the 
way started by countries such as Belgium, Holland, Canada and Spain are 
the firsts of a future-long list because it our modern society is changing, as 
the minds of most people do, and we have left behind these centuries in 
which the things must be in one way and can't be in another.

 


