  In the last years, the Spanish society has seen how its percentage of immigrants has 
risen until it covers the 7% of the population. While some people think that immigration 
is beneficial by, for example, increasing the birth rate or covering some jobs, and it 
makes Spanish society improve itself, some others consider it a problem as they see 
immigrants as delinquents, people who are going to let them without work, or as people 
without cultural knowledge. In this essay I am going to discuss the main viewpoints 
about immigration in Spain.

  To begin with, there are some arguments in favour of this issue. Some people think 
that human beings have the right of decide where they want to live, work and be with 
their families. It is widely believed that immigration makes our society grow up, by 
mixing together different ethnic groups, cultures and religions, which everybody can 
have interest in or learn something about, in the same place. It is supported by the idea 
of, as people accept this situation and open their minds, it can end or reduce other 
problems, such as racism, or drive societies to a world without wars. In spite of having a 
good aim, the weaknesses of these arguments is that not everybody believe in this mix, 
and although most people fight in favour of the integration of immigrants, it seems that 
there will be always some people who reject foreigners and look them fearfully.

  To continue with, some people consider immigration as a difficult problem to deal 
with. Some of the arguments they maintain point out that if the number of immigrants 
continues increasing, they will use our sanity or social services, such as grants or 
scholarships, before us, will let them without work, or could occupy a place in the 
school where they were thinking of  taking their children. Although this ideas are very 
common in our society, it is reasonable to argue some of them. Firstly, as they live 
legally in our country and work for our society, they are in the same conditions as the 
rest for using our services, and neither immigrants nor those who were born in the 
country have more rights to use them before others. Secondly, some of the evidence 
shows that usually immigrants accept those jobs that the majority of people don't want 
to work in, but which must be occupied by someone, as they need money to send to 
their families, so, there is not really a problem with the work issue.

  There are some other arguments against immigration which concern feelings of 
xenophobia and racism. It is believed by some people that our society is suffering an 
invasion. It has a relation with the points I developed in the last paragraph, because 
these arguments are those which these people defend as consequences of this supposed 
invasion. It is reasonable to argue this viewpoint because some decades ago, due to its 
internal problems, Spain was a country with a big number of emigrants who reached for 
better conditions, and now, when it has been consolidated as one of the most important 
countries in Europe, with a stable economy and many opportunities to offer to its 
society, it has been playing the contrary role, as a receptor country of immigration. 
Besides, one of the points that can be taken into account to argue this is that the birth 
rate in Spain has risen from a lower to a very big one, thanks to this immigration, and in 
other way it could have not occurred, and it may produce some problems, for example 
in the education because there could be several teachers for few students.

  Moreover, most people think in words such as illegality and delinquency when 
immigrants are mentioned. One the one hand, although the 80% of the immigrants come 
to Spain legally, the images offered by television channels and the cases pointed out by 
the newspapers persuade people to think that foreigners enter in our country illegally, 
when in the majority of the situations they have regulated permissions or a tourist visa, 
so this perspective is not very reliable. One the other hand, it is apparently true that the 
number of delinquents bands and their actions are increasing, such as thefts, traffic of 
drugs or mafias. This is something, with terrorism, which produces a lot of fear and the 
sensation of insecurity among the people, and bring about more feelings of racism and 
xenophobia. This is probably one of the main arguments against immigration, specially 
since the Spanish society suffered the attacks of 11-M by Islamic terrorism, and due to 
people can see that it is a international big problem which nowadays can suffer every 
country, as we gaze at not only the case of Spain, but also others such as England.

  In conclusion, we can see that there are arguments both defending and rejecting 
immigration. Some of those which are in favour deal with the idea of a better society, 
and even more, a better world, others with the social aspects such as the increase of the 
birth rage. However, most of the arguments which reject immigration seem to be 
prejudices, as most people judge foreigners without knowing them. It makes the 
arguments against immigration lose strength in favour of those which defend it, because 
immigration is a real fact that our society we should face up, eluding conflicts and 
accepting the situation as normal as we could. Concerning the problem of the terrorism, 
it can be pointed out that it is not a problem of Spain, it is an international problem that 
should worry every country and needs a solution as soon as it were possible.

  

  


