
         Many researches have proved that homosexuality has existed since civilisation began, 
in all races, in both the female and the male sex, and in any social standard. Nowadays, the 
debate about legality and scopes of homosexual marriage is one of the most dynamic in 
western world. In this essay I'm going to comment on the subject of marriages between gay 
people and if they should be allowed to adopt children.

	Human beings cannot choose to be homosexual or heterosexual. Sexual preference of  
greater part of people begins to define itself on early adolescence. In relation to this 
preference we always have alternative: we can accept it or not; but psychologists consider 
that our sexual preference is not a conscious act and we can't change it. Nevertheless, many 
different religious groups consider that this preference is a sexual deviation. The 
homosexuality has been forbidden in many countries, punishing the sexual tendency, and in 
very many cultures this kind of relationship became a sin.

	To analyse the problem of gay people we should ask ourselves if the marriage between 
man and woman needs any recognition or support of the State to exist. We know that the 
answer is negative: marriage and family exist before the State. In that case, why have all the 
States recognised and benefited this union? The State has special interest in unions of men 
and women, because it is the unique link capable of generate new human beings: beings that 
are essential to the community. The objective of recognition and juridical legitimisation of 
heterosexual marriage is the good of children. Opponents of the Common Law's reform think 
that the union of a man with a woman is the unique definition of the marriage (semantic 
argument), because it's the base of a procreation. They argue that this definition has existed 
for centuries (traditionalist argument) and it belongs to its objective essence. To alter 
grounds of marriage, being based on limit cases, they allege, equal to convert exception in rule; 
whereas putting on the same level heterosexual and homosexual unions as to their sentimental 
ground (and, therefore, subjective) would permit state recognition of any kind of relationship.

	However, liberal groups which are in favour of gay unions -and in which I include 
myself- reject aforementioned critics, and maintain that there are no reasons that justify the 
exclusion of homosexual people of juridical system's protection. Personally, I think that we 
should reject the semantic argument, because of it tautology; and the traditionalist argument, 
because of it disconnection with social and ethical principles. The reform of marriage in order 
to include rights of gay people is a matter of equality of the law. A great part of western 
society consider that it is necessary to permit gays and lesbians to marry their partners: so 
that they could have the same rights as heterosexual couples. In general, civil marriage 
concedes many rights that two persons without it don't receive. These rights include social 
security, taxes, inheritance, and adoption of children, although this last one should be deal 
with more attention.

	In my point of view, the adoption is perhaps the most polemic subject of all the 
debate. People who consider that gays and lesbians should adopt usually argue their opinion 
saying that it is better to an abandoned child to live with homosexual couple than not to have 
any family. However, nowadays, the situation is very different: the lateness of age to get 
married and form a family; to resort to contraceptive devices; and modern lifestyle, have 
contribute to make the adoption more frequent. Nowadays, a lot of heterosexual couples 
decide to adopt children to achieve their dreams of having a "complete" family. An example of 
this could be the case of Spain -one of countries with the worst rate of birth- where to adopt 
a Spanish child people have to wait even 9 years, and where in last 5 years the number of 
international adoptions has increased 264 per cent.

	In conclusion, we have seen that there are many arguments in favour and against 
homosexual marriages. In my opinion, the support of the State would help gay people to form 
stronger relationships. It would be a great benefit, because the chaos or provisionality that 
many times exist in their lives could decrease. Nevertheless, I consider myself more sceptical 
with the adoption, because there are many heterosexual couples that want to adopt children 
and I know that this kind of family has existed throughout history and is secure, whereas we 
don't really know how would homosexual parents affect on the emotional development of a 
child.
             


