
	Marihuana has been used since civilisation began in continents like 
Asia 
and Africa with the purpose of treating different illnesses, but its 
therapeutic value has not been recognised till the beginnings of 20th 
century. The matter of consumption of  marihuana has been a subject of a 
very polemic debate in many countries of the world. Some medical 
researches 
show reasons for preoccupation, whereas many people think that marihuana 
should be legalised. In this essay I'm going to expose advantages and 
arguments against the legalisation of marihuana.

	Those who are not agree with the legalisation, maintain that 
marihuana as a 
drug creates addition and has many negative effects on our health. These 
two 
arguments seem to make sense: a research carried out in New Zealand prove 
that people who consume marihuana regularly have a great probability for 
end 
up by consuming stronger drugs. Secondly, as for the effects on our body, 
scientists stand out the effects that marihuana produces in our brain and 
lungs. When someone smokes marihuana, the THC passes fast from lungs to 
the 
blood, and then to all of our organs, even the brain. As a consequence, 
smokers of this drug may have problems with their memory and the 
apprenticeship; difficulties to think and solve problems; loss of the 
coordination; and also an increase of  the cardiac rhythm. There is an 
interesting research that shows that people who smoke marihuana 
frequently 
have more health's problems that those who smokes tobacco. Smoking 
marihuana 
may causes lung cancer. Finally, depression, anxiety and alterations of 
personality have been also associated with this drug. Many researches 
clearly prove that marihuana can cause problems in daily life and even 
make 
worse user's present problems. As marihuana affects on learning and 
remember 
information, it is probable that it smoker lags behind on acquiring 
intellectual, labour and social abilities. The adverse impact of  
marihuana 
on memory and apprenticeship can last days and even weeks after the 
disappearance of acute effects of the drug. A persona who smokes 
marihuana 
every day may be working with a reduced intellectual level.

	However, there are many people that try to look beyond the effects 
of a 
drug in order to project a large list of potential medical advantages of 
marihuana. This argument also seems to be reasonable. Among 1840 and 1900 
more than a hundred articles about therapeutic uses of cannabis have been 
published in American and European medical magazines. Authors of those 
articles recommended cannabis saying that it has many advantages. For 
example, marihuana permits certain diminution of  the pressure of an eye 
liquid produced in people who suffer from glaucoma. This plant also can 
reduce pain suffered by persons with sclerosis and nausea provoked by 
sessions of chemotherapy. A well known ability of cannabis consisted of 
stimulation of appetite could help people with AIDS to get back their 
muscular mass. Secondly, people who want marihuana to be legalised also 
say  
that it is hypocritical to ban sick people use marihuana while morphine 
is 
allowed.

	In conclusion, we have seen that there are arguments in favour and 
against 
the legalisation of marihuana. Illegality of cannabis make difficult the 
investigation of its effects. Marihuana has yet a large track to travel 
through if has to be recognised as a medicine. This drug has shown to 
have 
therapeutic value against very many diseases as AIDS, sclerosis and 
cancer. 
Naturally, cannabis is not appropriate for everyone, but this principle 
is 
applied to every therapeutic treatment. Although marihuana has 
disadvantages 
it helps a great number of persons, Almost every person involved on the 
issue of cannabis, including doctors, think that this herb offers 
therapeutic benefits agrees that there are still a lot of questions about 
this subject to answer and, as a consequence, the debate will not end 
soon.





