       Homosexual relationships always produced a lot of controversy. Recently gay people obtained the 
right to get married but many people are against it. Throughout history all the laws, politics and traditions 
included the idea os man and woman union, which is a traditional marriage. However these days this sitation 
is changing. The govermnent decided to transfer all this rights to homosexuals. In this essay I will try to argue 
that, in my view, gay people should be allowed to get married, denyed to adopt children and why so many 
people are against gay marriage.
       
       There are not many countries which have been legalized the homosexual marriage. In fact there are 
only four. First it was Holland, then Belgium, Massachusetts state in United States and finally Spain. It's an 
important progress in a field of human rights and freedom, because it shows us, that our society is going more 
and more modern and open to different styles of live, different culturs and so on. Centuries ago, homosexual 
people have been burning in main squares and in the Franco dictatorship, being homosexual was a crime. 
Legalize this type of marriage and relationships is an act of justice, because it recognizes the right to choose 
one's sexual preferences without being discriminated.
       
       However a lot of people aren't agree with the idea of legalize gay marriage. The first reason is that 
they just aren't comfortable with the idea of changing old stereotypes, because they think that the marriageis 
an institution between one man and one woman. Moreover, present societies have recognized that allowing 
civil rights to certain groups may offend other groups and this is exacly what is happening according to this 
problem. Many christian people don't want homosexuals to get married because they affirm that the marriage 
must be useful for the continuity of our species. I think that the simple discomfort and desagreement are not 
reasonable arguments for not allowing it.
       
       The second reason is that the marriage should be a sacred institution and that the homosexual unions 
offend religion. This idea is based on the assumption that all the marriages must be taken in churches in a 
presence of a priest. However, in this case, the church has nothing to do with this assue, because there is a ver 
clear separation between church and state, and it is the state, and not the church who is responsable of the act 
of marry two persons.. It supposed that nowadays there is a freedom of religion, but it can't be consider like 
truly one if we don't have the right to freedom from religion. I believe that homosexuals are not disturbing 
anyone by their acting and we shouldn't interfere in other's lifes.
       
       Finally I would mantion that I am gisagree with allowing them to adopt children. There are many 
opinions according to this problem. Some people favor it. Their arguments are that it will provide a new 
vitality to many families and that the homosexual people will take care of their children in a better way than 
the heterosexuals, because they are much mire excited about the idea of having children, since it has been 
banned before and it seems that young heterosexual are not so excited about it. In my point of view, these 
opinions may be true but i think that children should have a mother and a father, not two mothers or two 
fathers. Laso they would suffer some type of confusion or upset. Besides there are a lot of cases of child 
sexual abuse in such kinds of families.
       
       So then, this essay has considered several points about the theme if gay people should be allowed to 
get married and adopt children. First of all, gay people are human, like heterosexuals, so they have the right to 
live their lifes however they want to and all the people are free to choose if they want to share their life with a 
person of the same sex or not. Second, many people are used to see heterosexual unions. They are afraid of 
other relationships because they have no idea of them. Third, a lot of christian people affirm that it offend 
their religion. Finally I have talked about adoption by homosexuals and I think that it damage children's 
physic. Having described the problem of homsexual marriage, my own opinion is that we can't impose to 
other people what we thnik is right, because they are free and they know whatt they want to do theirselfs. 
Moreover I believe, that it would be necessery a change in our society, in order to become more tolerance, 
because all persons are human and they should have the same rights like heterosexual people.

