       The legalisation of marihuana is a serious problem in our present society. In many countries has begun 
campaigns for and against legalisation of marihuana. In most European countries cannabis legalisation and 
practice are two very different things. In theory, production, distribution and consumption of cannabis that 
contains more than 0,2% of THC is forbidden in all countries. In practice, most European authorities have 
installed a grey zone, where it is up to the individual policeman or judge to apply these laws. In this essay I 
will try to show different points of view, for and against legalisation of  marihuana and its use.
       
       Many adolescents are agree with this legalisation and there are many reasons, which prove this point of 
view. Those, who believe that marihuana should be legal, uses a lot of reasonable arguments. Some of them 
believe that marihuana is not very dangerous, not worse than alcohol, so if alcohol and tobacco are legal, it 
makes no sense for marihuana to be illegal. Moreover some would argue that the police has better things to do 
than arrest weed smokers and that people should be free to choose what to do with their bodies. In addition 
marihuana legalisation would lead to less use of other drugs and would end the black market and criminal 
profits. Also drug laws are keeping people who need marihuana for medicine from getting it and are keeping 
Hemp and other positive marihuana related products from being developed too. Other reason in favour is that 
we need to focus on reducing drug harms not arresting more people and that, in reality, the drug laws do not 
keep anyone from getting drugs, not to mention that marihuana is good for the environment and that the drug 
laws are racist. Furthermore marihuana could be taxed and contribute to the economy. Besides prohibition 
never worked for alcohol and it does not work in this case. The last but not least argument is that marihuana 
never killed anyone.
       
       However there are many people who are disagree with this legalisation. Their reasons are quite 
reasonable too and they think that legalising marihuana would only make drug problems worse. First of all if 
marihuana was legal more people would use it. In addition alcohol and tobacco hurt many people and 
legalising marihuana will only cause more damage. The general view is that marihuana legalisation would 
send out a bad massage, especially to youth, that weed is acceptable. Moreover its use has gone down among 
youth, so why change the law now? Research suggests that when marihuana laws were weakest in America, 
weed use among teens was the highest ever. Scientists keep discovering new health and psychological 
dangers from marihuana. This drug not only impairs the mind every time it is used, interfering with learning, 
work and parenting but also causes cancer. Furthermore legalising marihuana would lead to more use of 
alcohol and other illegal drugs. Our experience with alcohol shows that if alcohol is legal for adults it 
becomes more acceptable and available for teens, so legalising marihuana for adults would legitimize its use 
and availability for youth. Another reason against is that it would be the best thing for the tobacco industry, 
because it would profit most. Besides many dealers and drug lords would most likely love to see marihuana 
and other drugs legal and the black market would increase for marihuana sales to youth, so it would be easier 
for kids to get weed.
       
       Finally, I have considered important to talk about medicinal cannabis, which is, in the field of drugs, 
one of the topics that produces a lot of debates in the political and scientific areas. It seems that cannabis and 
its derivatives can help in certain symptoms like nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy, glaucoma, 
sclerosis, AIDS - related to appetite loss and much more. An argument against its use conclude that there are 
already similar or more efficient and already tested drugs on the market for these purposes. In addition it is 
generally considered that general medical use would finish with manufactured drugs by pharmaceutical 
companies with authorisations for markeing, once reproducible quality, safely and efficiency is proven. 
Nevertheless some people argue that legalising cannabis for medicinal purposes is in fact a back door method 
of legalising it for non - medical but recreational purposes.
       
       In this essay I have presented a lot of arguments in favour legalising marihuana. Nevertheless some of 
them are not very convincing and persuasive. The argument that the police has better things to do than arrest 
weed smokers is not ver logical. The police knows better what they must do or not and if this smoker is 
dangerous it is quite logical to catch and arrest him. Another argument which is not very clear is that 
marihuana legalisation would end the black market. It is not a true one, because marihuana is not the only 
drug in the world, so if exists more illegal drugs it is impossible to end this kind of market. However the 
arguments that people should be free to choose what to do with their bodies and that marihuana never killed 
anyone may appeal to many people, because, first, we can't interference in other people lifes and second, if 
marihuana never killed anyone it seems true that is not ver unhealth and dangerous. One of the arguments 
against is that if alcohol and tobacco hurt many people, marihuana will only cause more damage. This could 
be considered a realistic perspective, since more use of marihuana would contribute to be easier for kids and 
not only for them, to get weed. Finally The argument against its medical use that says there are similar or 
more efficient drugs appears to be persuasive, but it has certain weaknesses because this argument is based on 
scientific merits and so cannot be adequately addressed in this legal analysis in this essay.
       
       In conclusion, in this essay I have considered the problem of legalisation of marihuana. First I have 
exposed these point of view which are in favour, like it is not worse than alcohol or tobacco or it would 
contribute to the economy. Afterwards I have talked about arguments which are against. The important one is 
that if marihuana was legal more people and kids would use it and get weed. At last I have presented a 
mediacl point of view and its use in medicine, that prove that it can help in treat certain symptoms.

