These days there is a new polemic subject to discuss: to allow or not gay 
people to get married and adopt children. Recently in Spain a law has 
been approved to allow gay people to get married and the Catholic Church 
has complained.  In this essay, I will try to explain why I think that 
gay people should have the right to get married and adopt children as the 
heterosexual people.

In one hand I believe that the idea of two gay persons married is like 
two heterosexual married. When we talk about two persons who love each 
other I think that they should have the possibility to create a legal tie 
to one leans back to other in case of death, illnesses, and so on like 
the possibility that already have the heterosexual people. This legal tie 
allows them to be calmer and surer about their right over his/her 
partner.

In the other hand we have the subject to adopt children. This is more 
controversial topic than marry; we have three points to revise here:

 First we have to take account of the problem of the sexuality of the 
children in the future. Some people say that the sons/daughters of gays 
will be gays in future, like their parents, due to the ambience in which 
these children grow up. But this is a problematic hypothesis, because 
almost every couple who has children is heterosexual and if always the 
children are sexually oriented like their parents then couldn't be any 
gay person. A solution to the problem of the sexual orientation of the 
adopted children may be that parents talk to them and explain them the 
situation, and tell them that there are another sexually options for them 
and that they are not obligated to be gays, that they do not force them 
to be gays. 

Second we have another problem with these children; the discrimination 
that the can suffer because their parents are gays. But this is a problem 
very difficult to solve, because there are persons who don't like gay 
people, and even people that hate these ones. The solution could be to do 
that this persons who don't like gays were more tolerant, but this is 
very difficult to obtain. 

Third we have the fact of people that say that two gays with a child is 
something that is not natural. But I think that human beings are not 
natural at all: we have created so many things that are not natural 
(television, computers, clothes and so on). And if we have created so 
many things we can create another more; and homosexuality is not new in 
our history. Now we can allow gay people to adopt children.

	To sum up, we have seen the different things that we have to 
take account to decide to allow gay people get marry and adopt or not. 
The most important of these factors are the love of a couple, the 
sexuality of the children in the future, the discrimination that children 
can suffer and the naturalness of this new concept of family. Taking 
count of all this it could be a good idea to make aware the gay parents 
that can be in the future to explain the children the sexuality problems 
that they can suffer, so that they can know that they are not forced to 
be gays. But to finish the essay I have to say that I think that a family 
(of heterosexuals or homosexuals) always needs love and it is not 
important if the parents are two men, two women or a man and a woman.

