
       The legislation of marijuana is a theme very controversial because at 
present many people want to permit the legal entry of marijuana in many 
countries because they consider that marijuana is not worse than cigarettes like 
Ducados, Fortuna, Malboro and so on. To the other hand, other people do not 
want to permit the legal entry of marijuana in many countries because this drug is 
harmful to health. In this essay I will discuss the main viewpoints concerning the 
legislation of marijuana, what people are in favour of the legislation of marijuana 
and why; and what are not in favour of this one and why and the continuous 
debate between the medical, health ministry and the government to permit the 
legislation of marijuana like a medicine to calm the pain.
       Why do many people support the marijuana? First of all, one of the main 
arguments in favour of marijuana is this drug is not more harmful than tobacco. 
Many people in Spain smoke cigarettes, and not for that, they are penalized. But 
if people smoke marijuana they will be penalized because they are committing an 
offence. Second, an other possible argument is that marijuana has therapeutics 
effects with people with distress. Finally, they think that many legal drugs kill a 
lot of people, and not for that, these drugs are prohibited; however, illegal drugs 
kill least people in the world.
       In addition, other people think that the legislation of marijuana must not 
be permitted. The main viewpoint of these persons is that marijuana is a drug, 
and like all drugs, marijuana has secondary effects and is harmful to health. An 
other reason is that people smoke the marijuana is not worried for the other 
persons and they smoke in front of them and the passive smoker are annoyed 
with the smoke and the smell of the other persons, and also, indirectly, these 
passive smokers are smoking marijuana. One argument against is that drugs turn 
a lot of money in the world. Drugs are the second affair of the world; the first are 
the arms. All this provokes many troubles and crimes between drug addict and 
the pushers. Many people have no why stand this situation and for that they 
complain. An other reason is that drugs annoy life of persons. Many people in the 
world do not want this situation for their children, brother, daughter and so on; 
and for that they do no want the legislation of marijuana.
       Finally, the troubles more big are between the government, medical and 
the health ministry. It had been discussed for many years ago if the marijuana 
must be permitted like a medicine to calm the pain or not. Many people have 
been penalized or accused to use this drug with this therapeutic ultimate. This 
drug had been used to control the nauseas provoked for the chemotherapy too, 
and for this the problems too. All problems begin because marijuana, although it 
is a soothing, it is a drug with damaging effects too. Firstly, medical want that 
health ministry investigate about appropriateness of marijuana and further on this 
drug can be prescribed for the medicals. It knows that marijuana has an active 
origin that it can calm the pain. The main idea with this investigation is that with 
this active origin, medicals can make a medicament for help those persons whose 
need to calm the pain.
       So then, we have seen that there are many opinions about the legislation of 
drugs. The most important of this theme is that, one day, marijuana, or one 
component of marijuana can help to many people of the world. Now, the most 
important is that medicals can make a medicament with the origin active and a 
lot of people can benefit from this new sedative. In my opinion, I believe that this 
theme is very complicated. Only, one person with problems could say if this drug 
must be legal or not. I think that only for these persons, with serious problems, 
this drug have to be legal, but for persons that want the marijuana for taste, this 
drug must be prohibited because they do not avoid no trouble like the pain, they 
only damage their health.
       
       
      