    
	Gay people have always been a theme very important because this one have gave many 
problems to the government with the marriage and adopt children. Catholic Church have 
discussed this theme very much. Actually, a lot of people think that gay people are stranges, 
unnormal; but other people think that gay people are normal person although they have other 
sexual condition. In this essay, I will discuss the main viewpoints concerning to this theme, and 
why people are in favour or against.
	There are many reasons why many people think gay people are stranges and unnatural 
and the marriage and adopt children are impossible. These persons think that man is destined to 
woman. They get married, not two men or two  women: this is not Christian. Man and woman 
have to procreate and two men alone or two women alone can not do this. Men need a mother, 
they need one womb; without these two things, men can not child. The same with women: they 
have womb, but they need one spermatozoon, for that, they need a man. With regard to adopt 
children, they need one mother and one father. These people against say that if children have 
two fathers or two mothers, they will not be fine, they will suffer mental disorder because other 
boys with mother and father will insult them and themselves will see strange that situation.
	To the other hand, other people think that gay people can get married and adopt 
children. With regard to marriage, they can get married in a registry office and Catholic Church 
could not to say anything. However, these persons think that everybody are free, and gay people 
and not gay people can get married by church or to have a civil wedding. With regard to child, 
many people think it is better that gay people adopt child because in most cases, two fathers or 
two mothers are better than one mother and one father. These children will be better with two 
men or women with works and home and so on, and not with a battered mother and a alcoholic 
father or other horrible case.
	Government have had a lot of problems with this theme. Before, gay people cannot get 
married and adopt children, but now, they can. This theme has provoked a lot of problems 
because Catholic Church do not want marriage gays because this is unnatural. There are a lot of 
manifestations or other things in favour or against get married and adopt children by gay people. 
Also, there are many opinions, and all that provoke problems and discussions between Church 
and government because the last has allowed the marriage and the adoption.
	So then, we have seen differents points of view of this theme. Possibly, it will have a lot 
of problems for many years. On the basis of this, it would seem to be a good idea that Church 
and government reach agreement and problems finish because many couples have troubles 
because they want children and get married without problems and criticisms.  In my opinion, I 
support marriage gays and adopt children by gays. I prefer that one boy stays with two men or 
two women with good works before he or she stays with bad parents. With regard to marriage, I 
think that if there are marriage between man and woman, why not between man and man or 
woman and woman? Marriage is a union by love, both women and men can fall in love between 
persons of the same condition or not. Finally, y think that love has not frontiers and nor 
adoption. 

						

