Overpopulation is one of main problems in big cities of developed world. As result of 
that appears traffic flowing problems. Our towns are getting bigger and bigger and in 
most places it is not being directed, for example streets and even parking in downtowns 
cannot park all cars owing to everyone who has to work there. City hall must do 
something because it harms every citizens. 
 	
It is said "to big problems, big solutions". Madrid could take example from other big 
cities that had the same problem years ago like London, Mexico D.F. etc. For example 
in Mexico D.F.(which has a 20million population) people who have a car has a ration 
system, and only can drive their vehicles few days a month. In London which is divided 
in radial areas people cannot drive their car in "the city"(the central and most saturated 
district) except who is living there, taxi and bus service, these laws have solved a little 
bit that problem

But the problem in Madrid is more complex that it seems. City council wants to citizens 
to move by public transportation. Despite that idea people prefer and in some cases need 
to go to their job, go to cinema or go shopping by car even tough Madrid has one of the 
best underground networks in the world, completed with a wide intercity  train network, 
called  cercanías, and a lot of bus lines. All these transport ways are used every day by 
two million people. A very important motive because that problem have increased is the  
general economic improvement makes much more people to can afford a car

Drive in our city can be a nightmare. The biggest traffic jams are produced in the 
outskirts highways working days at rush hour, when someone could be caught for one 
hour stopped in his vehicle. First of all many people who live in the suburbs have to go 
to their work in Madrid and cannot expend excessive time in a train. That problem has 
decreased cause the government has built many new highways last years that help to 
clear the traffic like M-45, M-50, Radial 2 and so on. Second and nowadays the most 
important factor are the works and diggings that are making in order to hide down the 
highway M-30, close to river Manzanares, harming most neighbourhoods from south 
and producing every working day morning kilometres of traffic jam and the Sundays 
when around 50.000 people take appointment for watching a football match in Vicente 
Calderon stadium, vicinity to Carabanchel, the most injured neighbourhood. Also city 
council is making too rebuilding in some subway lines which is affecting another places 
of the city. Many citizens have shown their disagreement with all these plans.

Maybe these difficulties will be more or less resolved when the works will be finished. 
But main problem is people is getting more and more accustomed to drive their car even 
when it is unnecessary. If all together do not change this situation we will have a greyer, 
noisier,  more polluted and more unpleasant place where can live.    
 
 
