          For a long time, the most important affair about gays and lesbians was to know 
if the topics that talk about them were or not true. We all have heard about the Greeks 
and their sexual preferences (they did not used to differentiate between man and 
women), about Sodom and Gomorra, about the gay liberation and AIDS in the 80's, 
and so on... All of this myths and topics had injured the image of gay people, and had 
created a stereotype of a gay: a promiscuous person who does not like sports and who 
is extremely sensitive.
Fortunately, in the last years, society and its members had change. Through media and 
the pressure of gay associations, people had changed their point of view, and as a 
result, people are not any more interested on how weird are they, or how many times 
and with how many people do they get laid. Now that we (unfortunately not all of us) 
understand what they are and that they deserve equal treat socially and legally, we are 
all concerned about the future, we know what they are and what they want, but we are 
not sure if they can form families or if they can raise children due to the stereotypes 
and prejudices that I just have mentioned. Seen this, in this essay I'll try to talk about 
the different visions of the concept of family and the gay adoption, and ill try to find a 
cure for the problem between the different opinions.


           Like I said, different points of view exist about the gay marriage, some people 
talk about marriage as a solid and vertebrate institution that cannot be changed, an 
union composed by a man and a woman, that totally excludes gay people from this 
kind of union; while other talk about  marriage as a structure based on four functions: 
sexual, economic, reproductive and educative, so in that way, all those persons( 
without any kind of discrimination) who has a couple and fill this four functions, can be 
considered as a couple. Nevertheless, I think that marriage cannot become a solid 
concept, that is, marriage cannot be defined as something invariable, I thing that as 
personalities and behaviours, exist different kinds of union, or marriages (for example, 
some families, for some reason, cannot live together and that brakes one of the four 
basic function of marriages); that is, that the main characteristic of marriage is variety.


           The concept of family and marriage are very close, and both terms are very 
popular in these days. Now that homosexuals can get married, Catholic Church is very 
concerned about this theme, they say that this new law that allow gay people to get 
married it's a cautious to the institution of marriage, they talk about this law as the 
end of the ¨normal¨ marriage, as the cause of the increasing level of divorces, but 
paradoxically the truth is that the salvation for marriage is precisely the approval of 
this law, and that is because gay people want to get out of that ghetto in which we 
always have kept them, they want to be admitted socially, they want to get married and 
have a family, they want to be happy.


             Such as the marriage between homosexuals, the adoption of children by gay 
couples has became question of the present, scientists and psychologists had started a 
tireless search to find an answer to the question that if gay couples can raise ¨normal¨ 
children (children without any psychological problem). Can they? , well it's said by 
some people that they cannot, and they argue that children need a father and a mother 
to be ¨normal¨, but in other hand, it's said that children do not divide kinds of love or 
persons, it's said that they just need love, no matter if that love come from two fathers 
or two mothers. And seeing this, I think that no matter if the parents are homosexuals 
or heterosexuals, both are sexual preferences and persons cannot be judged by only 
that condition, that is, I think that as homosexuals couples as heterosexuals 
couples can be bad, good, or normal parents.


            In conclusion, we have talked about gay marriage, about gay families and 
about the adoption of kids by gay couples, we have seen different viewpoints of these 
themes, and we could observe a big confusion of the society in these issues. What I 
think, is that people is not prepared yet to assume that two men or two women can 
love to each other, we are not prepared to see them raising kids, or kissing to each 
other, and because of that, we (the people who do not want to accept or understand 
their condition) are protecting old fashioned terms such as marriage to differentiate 
from them, we do not want them to be married, we don't want them to form families, 
we want them to form similar things with different names, we want them to be distinct 
from us in every thing they do. That's the truth, we are not prepared, but it doesn't 
matter, they are persons and they need freedom, they need love such like us, and they 
should not hide to have it, to give it, to make it.

            So then the solution to this problem is that we must talk less about concepts 
and ideas, and we should try to support fair causes, laws, or behaviours that fight for 
democracy and sameness between all of us (The sovereignty rest with the people, so 
we have to vote and propose all that people that is going to defend all those kinds of 
ideas). Causes or laws like the one which was approved this year in Spain (a law who 
allows gay couples to get married), it could sound a little exaggerated, but thanks to 
this law, the persecution of gay people is over, justice has been made, and at the same 
time we have shown that we are growing up as a culture, as a society, we have shown 
that democracy works.




