           The use and consume of substances like Marijuana or 
Hachis has been one of the most controversial problems of 
the last decades. The evolution of the society in terms of 
development of laws and knowledge inside fields like 
chemistry and medicine has prohibited its use, been based on 
the argument that THC (main component of both substances) 
causes different mind and health problems such like lost of 
memory, loss in the learning process, and breathing 
complications. However, a recent study indicates that these 
substances are consumed by about 60 million people just in 
USA, and this obligates us to make a question, is the 
marijuana dangerous? Well, in this essay I will discuss 
different view points about the use and consume of 
Marijuana and Hachis.

        First of all, there are several arguments in favour of the 
consume of Marijuana and Hachis. Many people think that 
each person should be free to decide about his or her body, 
that is, the consume of Marijuana and Hachis should be 
legalised, so, in that way, we would be able to decide if we 
consume it, if we don't, if we abuse from it, or if it is 
dangerous to us. Associations like Green culture or NY State 
Cannabis Action Network are in constant fight against this 
prohibition, they want to show to the society that this 
substances had therapeutics functions, and that exist lots of 
prejudices against these substances due to different studies 
that are just focused on all those negative effects of 
Marijuana and Hachis, and that never talk about the positive 
things of these drugs. Associations say: ¨These drugs should 
not be compared with other drugs like Cocaine or LCD, and 
this law and these studies do it¨. Moreover, these association 
had a scientific backup, research suggests that the levels of 
consume of these substances are raising every year, a study 
shows that five of seven teenagers had take these drugs, and 
teenagers argue that they feel good when they take them, 
they say that in contrast with alcohol, Marijuana and Hachis 
relax them, make them think about different matters, and 
make them feel safer because no one ever has died of 
consuming THC; They said that they don't like alcohol 
because it turned them aggressive and rough. At this point, 
we can see that the activism pro-marijuana is growing, the 
viewpoints of the society are changing for good, scientists are 
more interested in Cannabis as medicine for some diseases 
and every day more persons like David Robinson are fighting 
against the prohibition; David has opened various coffee 
shops where people can smoke ¨Maria¨, and it success has 
turned unstoppable.

          Some other arguments are maintained, mostly by 
religious and conservative people, they argue that drugs 
create addictions and destroy the human being, turning it 
into a weak person that just lives to feed it most primary 
necessities, such like hunger, thirst, vicious, and son on... In 
other way, politics and medical research are based on the 
idea that Cannabis has harmful effects in human body, 
recent studies say that the consume of THC provokes a worst 
focus and memory efficiency, and hurts lounges like tobacco, 
promoting cough and phlegm or even chronicle bronchitis. 
But just like pro-marijuana activists, anti-marijuana activist 
had their own associations and websites, such like 
Laantidroga.com, or Uksia.com. In that kind of WebPages we 
can found information about legal drug matters of different 
countries, and the content of the different laws that prohibits 
the consume of Cannabis in the most countries of the world, 
countries where the therapeutic use of this substance is also 
prohibited and punished.

           There are other arguments regarding the consume of 
Cannabis, researchers say that THC (the chemical composed 
of cannabis) has a therapeutic use, it has been proved that a 
correct use (it can be smoked, mixed with alcohol, mixed with 
garlic) of Cannabis can cure asthma, headaches promoted by 
migraine, or rheumatic pains. Others say that they want 
people to know the truth, it has been known that Cannabis 
can help to people who suffer multiple sclerosis, cancer or 
Aids, it is said that the THC controls the spasms, the 
nauseas, the vomit, or the loss of appetite, produced by the 
treatments used to control these diseases. Other possible 
argument is that being the last argument true, the problem is 
that,  beyond the therapeutic effect of Cannabis, the THC has 
different reaction in persons with the same disease, that is, 
the effects of THC in people depends of a lot of agents, the 
diet, the genetics, the evolution of the body (diseases, 
vaccines...) and so on... And this tell us that despite it 
medical functions, Cannabis cannot be classified as a secure 
treatment for certain diseases, but it can be considered as a 
very effectively treatment. Also, it has been suggested that 
some scientists are trying to obtain manipulated substances 
derivate from Cannabis, in order to make good use of its 
therapeutic properties, and to transform it into a shelf 
treatment. These kind of experiments are being developed 
mostly in Britain.

           In conclusion, we can see that there are many 
arguments, both defending and condemning the consume of 
Cannabis. Some of them deal with the condition of freedom to 
consume, and others deal with totalitarianism when they talk 
about prohibition due to the harm that provokes this 
consume. Other arguments defend the use of Cannabis just 
for therapeutic use, and others condemned the alterations of 
perception that it produced, but flatter its therapeutics use. 
Seen this, the arguments in favour appear more reasonable 
in terms of health and medical development, since any of us 
could suffer one of these terrible diseases (Aids, sclerosis, or 
Cancer), it seems unfair that an ill person who wants to use 
legally Cannabis as a treatment is not allowed to just because 
we, healthy people, don't suffer one of those diseases and we 
don't have the necessity of using drugs to calm down the 
pain. Another argument could be that we live in democracy, 
and just because of that we are free to do what we want to do 
as soon as I don't hurt or other people, so I can decide if I 
want to drink, to eat, to vote, to die, to study, to work, to 
speak, to make friends; I should be free to decide if I want to 
smoke cannabis, and if I cannot choose freely, the 
democracy, or the society, is interfering with my liberty.
           

