   Throughout history, homosexual people have been widely criticized and discriminated 
by heterosexual society. As a result of this, a lot of homosexuals have hidden their 
sexual tendencies for fear of reprisals or death. However, these people are not afraid of 
consequences because they are gradually accepted by our current society. In Spain, a 
problem has generated with the passing of the gay marriage law. This situation has 
caused demonstrations for or against this law and other matters in relation to it. In this 
essay I intend to argue that, in my view, gay people should be allowed to get married 
and adopt children, as far as this is possible. 

   I believe that gay people are entitled to get married, just like heterosexuals. First, these 
people are human beings who fell in love and need to consolidate their relationship of 
marriage, although it is a civil wedding. However, some people argue that these gay 
marriages are unacceptable because the sacrament of marriage is not between two men 
or two women, but a man and a woman. Then, this conjugal union cannot call 
"marriage". Nevertheless, I feel that if two people love themselves, this concept should 
not matter. Since Spain is a democratic country, everybody should accept these new 
sexual tendencies. In this way, everyone should help them to integrate in this society, 
and then we will progress to a better future.

   In my opinion, gay marriages are beneficial on two people. To begin with, if these 
people get married, they are entitled to get divorced like anyone couple. Also, if one of 
they die, the other can receive a widow's pension. Besides, that person can inherit all 
property of his/her late partner. Of course, it could be argued that other people disagree 
with these benefits, because as they do not regard "marriage" to these weddings, they do 
not approve either of these agreements. Then, they protest through the demonstrations 
against. On the other hand, homosexual collective demonstrates in favour of this law 
and forms gay associations. It entails to strengthen that cause and causes more popular 
revolts. However, I personally believe this change of law should not provoke any 
problem, because we live in a civilized society where people should not be judged by 
their sexual attitudes. Everybody is equal just as the regulations lay down. Then, 
homosexual people should benefit from this equality.

   It is argued that homosexual people should not adopt children, since if a homosexual 
couple adopts a child, that child will be traumatized because he/she will not have a 
father and a mother. Also, the Catholic Church thinks these adoptions are immoral and 
unnatural because of the same sex people cannot have children. That child should grow 
up a paternal figure and a maternal figure. The Church states a family is formed by a 
father, a mother and children. My own opinion is that if a child is adopted by 
homosexual people, in the near future he/she will not be homosexual. A child can live 
very happy with some homosexual parents. They can love him/her as if they were a 
heterosexual couple.

   To sum up, from my point of view the new law of gay marriage is a wonderful 
opportunity for homosexual people because they can become a family; although in 
Spain they cannot adopt children yet. However, I believe that the Spanish Government 
should improve this law because it should give a chance to gay people. Gradually, 
people, who do not accept to homosexual people, should admit to these people, since 
they are our friends, children, neighbours, and so on.
