
   In modern times the use of Marijuana has extended in our society. Marijuana is a 
psychotropic substance which produces various physical and mental disorders. 
However, Marijuana is the third most consume drug in Spain and in other countries. 
This soft drug is illegal in Spain, although it is legal in countries like in Holland. The 
legalization and the illegalization of Marijuana in some countries have generated serious 
problems in living between smokers and non-smokers. In this essay I will try to discuss 
different viewpoints about the legalization of Marijuana.

   To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of the legalization of Marijuana. 
Many people would say that some people who have intense pains, Marijuana can help to 
recover his/her appetite and increase his/her well-being. Some doctors seem to believe 
that the medical use of Marijuana, to relieve the pain in people with illnesses like 
multiple sclerosis, can legalize if current researches show its effectiveness. Also, 
according to the law of Hawaii, patients, who have certain illnesses, can obtain a 
recommendation of a doctor to consume Marijuana and must register in The State 
Department of Public Security to avoid the criminal persecution. This argument does 
not seem to make sense, because Marijuana is a drug which can cause addition, if it is 
consumed every day, although it is because of medical circumstances.

   Secondly, the promoters of initiative surgeries in USA seem to believe that Marijuana 
should be legalized. These people are three powerful businessmen. According to 
"Washington Post", they have invested a lot of dollar millions to support initiatives in 
favour of the legalization of medical Marijuana in USA. The use of medical Marijuana 
was approved by voters in Nevada and Colorado, whereas measures to prevent to the 
police who acquire drugs were approved in Oregon and Utah. The problem with this 
argument is that these people set a bad example to children and adolescents, because 
adults should advise to young people taking drugs is bad for their health. But they incite 
to consume Marijuana and other drugs.
 
   In addition, there are other arguments against the legalization of Marijuana. A recent 
medical study indicates that offers reasons to worry about the consumption of 
Marijuana. According of a report of BBC showed that Marijuana smokers can run risker 
of contracting lung cancer than tobacco smokers. Other researchers suggest that the 
Marijuana smoke places a bigger amount of tar in lungs that the one with tobacco. John 
Anderson, a doctor of Sidney, argued that the chemical substances in a Marijuana 
cigarette stay in a person for several weeks, giving to smokers: anxiety, depression, and 
so on. This seems a logical argument, because if smoking Marijuana or tobacco is bad 
for us, it is bad for others too. Since the smoke contains chemical substances which 
cause cancer; non-smokers can have lung cancer if they live with smokers, then they 
will be exposed to that smoke.

   In the other hand, many doctors claim many pregnant women consume Marijuana 
during pregnancy. Current researches have proved a connection between the use of 
Marijuana and certain risks for babies. This consumption is associated with 
backwardness in his/her growth, foetal malformations and risks of leukaemia in his/her 
childhood. If a mother smokes Marijuana during her breastfeeding, the chemical 
substances keep in her maternal milk, and then they go to blood of her baby. This point 
is rather convincing, although, Marijuana is an illegal drug, many pregnant women 
continue consuming this soft drug. During pregnancy, these women should pay 
attention to environment where they live, because this has hard repercussions on her 
baby.

   To sum up, we can see that are many arguments against the legalization of Marijuana. 
Some of them deal with the no-consumption of Marijuana, because it can cause 
illnesses and deaths. Other arguments put the advantages of legalization of Marijuana, 
because some believe that Marijuana is not bad for his/her health. One possible answer 
to this problem of the legalization could be to do research about Marijuana effects and 
to impose more laws about the illegality of this drug because it causes many problems 
in our society.  


   
