
During the last fifteen years reforms have been carried out in many countries with the target to equal in rights the homosexual couples. The last reforms taken in Canada, Beligum, Spain and the Netherlands allow same-sex marriage and the possibility of adopting children. Since then many have been the declarations in favor and against the new laws that allow the marriage and the adoption on the past of gay paople, and the discussion is still opened. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, gay people should be allowed to get married and adopt children.

From my point of view the question should be: "Why should gay people not be allowed to marry?" The marriage was created to formalize a deep affectionate relation and of mutual respect, and in these aspects there is no difference between heterosexuality and homosexuality. However, some people say that this is an unnatural union because marriage is a traditional heterosexual institution. I believe that this is a weak argument. The advances in the science and in thinking have demonstrated that much things that were traditionally considered correct, such as capital punishment and slavery, were absolutely wrong. From that, I believe tradition can be wrong or obsolete much time.

Some people say that marriages are for procreation and ensuring the continuation of the species. On the other hand is that infertile couples are allowed to marry, even if they are not going to procreate. On the other hand is that if ten percent of all the humans race that is gay were to suddenly, totally refrain from procreation, I believe that it is safe to say that the world would be significantly better off. One of the world's most serious problems is overpopulation and the increasing human misery that is resulting from it. Seems to me that gay people would be doing a really big favor for the world.

In the same line is that some people argue that the homosexual people are sick and they distrust his capacity to adopt children. Many opponents of gay rights have developed many reasons for not allowing gays to adopt. Looking for information, their main point includes that gay parents prey on their own children. However looking for information deeply I found that in a study of 269 cases of child sex abuse, only two offenders were found to be gay or lesbian. So I found that a child's risk of being molested by his or her heterosexual parent is over one hundred times greater than by someone who is homosexual.

In my opinion there shouldn't be reference to parental sexuality when a child is considered for adoption. What matters is the commiment to provide a loving home for that child, with adoptive parents that will take care of their child during his or her life. Some people, however, argue that having homosexual parents would be a problem for children when facing this difficult society. However I think that only a small proportion of the society would bother the children for the sexuality of this parents and I strongly believe that the majority of the population not only should not bother to the children but also they will help to reduce the discrimination that the previous ones could have on the children.

To sum up it turns out clear from my point of view that the marriage between gay people and the later adoption of children should be a reality perfectly accepted by the society. I think that it would take mnay years before this is accepted by the most traditionalist sectors of the population. But I believe that most of the people in the world would accept or would be in favor of the marriage between homosexuals and the adoptioon of children, in the present or in the near future.

