In the perspective of World's was on drugs, marijana is one of the biggest enemies. Since alcohol and tobacco, two life threatening substances, are legal, it is a relevant question why marijana is illegal. Some people think that the legalization of marijuana can be possible and possitive, or a least, not as negative as some people think. On the other hand, some people would argue that the legalization of marijuana is completely negative for the health of the individuals and the well being of the society. In this essay I will discuss some of the main viewpoints dealing with the legalization of marijuana.

Some people argue that marijuana should be legalized. One argument is that the legalization of marijuana would reduce the black market and the violence associated with the sale of marijuana. Another argument described by doctor Cook is that "compared with cigarettes and alcohol, the health risks and societal costs associated with even chronic marijuana use are mild". It could also be argued that prohibition of marijuana doesn't works, because it makes the drug more attractive, as a challenge for young people. These statements may be true but it's logical to think that by legalizing marijuana, more people will use the drug and, as a result, become addicted, which would be an important negative consequence.

It could be said that marijuana shouldn't be legalized because of the health risks that derive from its use. Firstly, not legalizing the sale and use of marijuana means it is tougher to purchase the drug, thus decreasing the frequency of its use and the frequency of addiction. Secondly is that a decrease in the use of marijuana means fewer health risks. Another point is that there are fewer risks for those indirectly associated with the use of marijuana such as second hand smokers or being injured in an accident when the driver was under the influence of marijuana.  These arguments are rather persuasive but people who need to use marijuana for treatment of pain associated with diseases such as cancer, will not have lega access to it.

Some people point out that marijuana should be legalized only for those individuals who require it for medicinal purposes, and with the conset of a doctor. One argument is that it insures that people who use it for medicinal purposes will have legal access to it. The problem with this argument is that the use of marijuana as a pain control option may cause patients to rely solely on the drug rather than medical treatment. Another possible point is that it limits the legal sale of the drug to those who are using it for medicinal purposes, rather than personal use. It could also be argued that the sale of marijuana as a prescription serves as a source of income for the government. These arguments seems to make sense but doctors may become part of the black market by handing out presciptions to those who want it rather than those who need it.

Some people argue that marijuana should be legalized only for those individuals over the age of eighteen. It is said that this decreases the likelihood of younger children to buy marijuana. Although, this argument appears to be persuasive it has certain weaknesses. One of them is that health risks related to the use of drugs is a factor regardless of age. It seems reasonable to think those individuals are considered adults and are able to make their own decisions regarding drug use. This seems to be a logical argument but it is also logical to think that some individuals at the age of eighteen are unable to make responsible decisions.

To conclude, there are many arguments concerning the use and legalization of marijuana. The main arguments in favour of the legalization are that it would reduce the back market associated with marijuana, the fact that it's less unhealthy than tobacco and alcohol, and the legal use for those who need it for medicinal purposes. On the other hand is that legalization of marijuana migt be a serious problem for those who are not prevented of the problems derived from the consumption of marijuana. On balance, the legalization of marijuana might be seen as a good idea only for those who require it for medicinal purposes.

