In modern times, the gay people have more freedom than in other times. However, there 
are some criticisms to the government because of the passing of the law that allows 
them to get married, and of course the possibility to adopt children. In this essay, I will 
try to explain the requirements of get conscience of the freedom of gay people.
In old Greece, the art or knowledge give the totally freedom to people to exclaim their 
sexual condition and feel save and better than in other times. This is the case of Platon, 
that in his works, praises Socrates and makes that he hasn't have any bad thing, because 
Socrates didn't leave nothing write, and we only know about him thanks to their 
disciples. This happen in centuries 18 and 19 too, when the literature has the best time, 
and the writers and composers use it to exclaim their beliefs and their sexual condition 
without problem, but with careful, because of the tyrannical or another absolut regime. 
In this case, this happen in Shakespeare, that uses his poems to express this.
The problem of the people irresponsable with gay people, begun so many years ago. In 
times of dictatorship of Franco, the censure to this people was absolutly in the way of 
they must leave the country and exile themselves. In addition, they must go to American 
countries, to live in a better way than in Spain they have been living, or they have to 
killed themselves. Also, they hide their condition to world to live in Spain in peace. The 
most popular example is Federico Garcia Lorca, that was killed the nineteenth of august 
in the middle of the Civil War, like Miguel de Unamuno.
So many famous people must go to exile, because of they beliefs or they sexual 
condition. In some ways, they succeed in this countries and become popular. In other 
ways, they lived in poverty and so they come back to Spain and died in hands of the 
dictatorship. Moreover, some of them support the regime to get favouritism and in 
change they service the regime of Franco by spying their colleagues that are hide of 
Franco. Manuel de Falla is one of the examples that goes to America and died there 
without see Spain anymore.
Nowadays, the gay people, can express themselves, can demonstrate and persuade the 
people, but there are so many people that still think like in the time of Franco. They 
think that they can think about everybody and that they have all the reason. This is not 
true because the teenagers can think so different to them, in fact they think different, 
they believe in freedom and they accept the people like is, they don't think that are sick 
people. They know that are normal, like everybody, without exception, although some 
proffesional try to manipulate their minds saying that the fact of be homosexual it is an 
illness of the brain.
So then, this essay considered the paper of gay people in the history of our times. The 
fact that they can get married, is already a big step to improve our society. It can be 
posible that in some years they can adopt, but this is a theme more difficult. Although, 
it's posible that nothing change, but we are in twenty-first century, and we must start to 
open our minds and leave this things, because there are problems more important than 
this, like the poverty in third world or wars.
