For many years the inmigration in Spain has been low. This is because in Spain the 
foreings come for holidays and not to live in Spain, but since Spain belongs to 
Europe the foreings start to come here for work and have a better life. In this essay 
I will try to explain this change that happened in several years.

A recent study indicates that the inmigration in Spain is favorable because there 
are some factors that are benefit like economy, society and so on. For example, in 
society birthrate has rising so much because of the births that have the women that 
come from foreign; the economy has risen because there are more works, although 
the illegal workers that are not register in Seguridad Social and they have 
undeclared income, and this fact suppose a improvement in life. Although this 
viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses, because the foreigns 
accept some works that exploit the workers but this happen with teenagers too.

Some people argue that the fact of inmigration is not possitive for spanish people 
because the borders are open to anyone and not all the foreings come to Spain for 
work. They possibility think that in Spain they can do what they want to do but 
when they come here they find the truth and they have to steal or deal to live in a 
better way than in their country. There are cases that directly they are hired 
assassin but if this happen it is because the people hire them. This point is rather 
convincing, although, some people make generalizations and this is not in this way, 
because not all the foreings come here to do bad things, seems to be only a 
minority.

Most people believe that the change of inmigration in Spain is because of the wars 
or regime in their countries, or simply they come here because they want to 
change. So many spanish people undertand this situation and accept the 
inmigration, but there are so many, too, that can't accept this, because they still 
thinking like in times of dictatorship, when the inmigration was so close. Nowadays 
the government permit the inmigration because is possitive in some ways, and a 
year ago they legalize some inmigrants like those who have been in Spain for four 
years with a residence and a legal work, and the boss of them must register them in 
Seguridad Social, because it is possitive for the boss and the workers. This could be 
considered a realistic perspective, since spanish people must emigrate in time of 
dictatorship or war to Europe or South America, to have a better live.

So then, this essay has considered the facts of changes in inmigration and the 
aspects positives and negatives of inmigration, and a perspective more neutral, but 
to solve this the government must be more rude with the foreigns that steal or kill, 
and with the boss that have illegalize workers.




