            For centuries, drugs have been used as medicament and tranquilizers, such as morphine and opium. 
Nowadays, in our society drugs are consumed, above all, without medical reasons and without legal 
permission. At the present marijuana is the soft drug more consumed, which is only legal to consume it in 
Holland. The outcomes of the legalisation in that country can be  an example to know how it affect to society. 
Some people think that the legalisation of drugs can be harmful and some other people who thinks that it can 
have good consequences. In this essay I will explain the outcomes of that practice in Holland and the 
arguments of the people who are in favour and against legalisation.
           One of the reasons of people who wants to introduce legalisation is the possible decreased of criminality. 
Most of the crimes which are commited are in order to obtain drugs. They need money or they want to get it 
cheaper. If drugs are legalized drogadicts or people who wants to consume drugs can buy it in places which 
sell drugs legally and, over all,  by less money. Also, the incentives for criminality and the use of money in 
criminal pursuit would be taken away, so that safe money could be intend for drigadicts' education and 
treatment. Therefore, it will be another chance to that people.
          Another reasons to legalized drugs are that the production willbe formalized and the quality of drugs 
will improve. The production is very linked to the quality of the product. That's why production is controled 
because of the legalisation and on being controled there is a special care to don't make drugs as nocive as they 
normally are. It means that when people buy drugs to trafficants they don't really know how nocive they are 
because if it is completely pure,it could be more dangerous. In that way, the consume will be under control 
and it would be safer. Also, in our society, soft drugs such as marijuana, are used to calm some diseases, for 
example cancer and AIDS, so it can be used in favour of medicine. Finally, people in favour of legalisation 
explain that marijuana is better than tobacco because it's totally natural. 
          People who are against the legalisation argue that the accessibility to drugs would be easier. On being 
easier to get drugs, the consume of them would  spread. The consequence of that is a possible increased of 
people taking drugs and it would make grow the adictive power of those sustances as it has happened with 
tobacco. Moreover, drugs have many bad consequences such as schizophrenia, but that only happens when 
the amount of consumption is very high and it can be controled if the consumption is on special places.
         In the case of Holland, it must be said that the consume of soft drugs is not so high as people think. 
Holland is one of the european countries which less drugs consume in spite of the "coffeeshops" where people 
smoke cannabis and marijuana. The three countries which have more consumption of soft drugs are Denmark, 
Spain and England, where these drugs are not legal. However, Holland it is the first country where more 
students of secondary consume soft drugs. Even so, it could be said that a tolerance policy respect to drugs 
doesn't manage to a greater consume necessarly because the number of consumption still being lower than in 
other european countries.
         To summarise, the subject about legalisation of soft drugs is divided in arguments in favour and against. 
The main ideas in favour are the decreased of criminality, the improve of production and quality of the soft 
drugs and the good usage of some of them to relieve the pain of some sick people. The main arguments against 
are the increased of the consumption and of the number of consumers. On balance, Holland could be a model 
to those countries who want to legalize soft drugs or are thinking to do it. The legalisation of soft drugs might 
be considered, in those countries which have a high level of consumption, as a possible solution to decreased 
criminality and to control the consumption of drugs, where  them only can be sold in places created to that 
with the aim of control the quantity of soft drugs consumed and the quality of the product.  
