								
	Gay people have many problems about getting married and specially about 
adopting children. Although these difficulties have existed throghout all history, they 
had been a taboo theme in society until these days when the majority of citizens have 
faced up this conflict and many people have concerned about it. I will try to explain the 
main problems of gay people and the changes they have obtained in modern times. 
From my point of view, it is a current argument between people and a main focus of 
problems in our modern society.

	There are many problems that gay  people have suffered for many years. First of 
all is that one linked with the thought of getting married. There was a great controversy 
about this in Spanish society. I personally believe that this conflict was probably 
aggravated in our country by the two opposite and principal ways of thinking in politics: 
the actual government who defended the allowance to gay people and the main political 
group against this government, supported by Catholicism, that defended the opposite 
idea. Spanish gay people finally got their objective in June so they were allowed to get 
civil marriage. This fact showed that Spain is in this way for an advanced and 
democratic country. But we must also remember that several countries had not approved 
this law yet.
	
       Related to the previous problem, the second concern, which is very important in 
gay people's life, is adopting children. Until this moment, they are not allowed to adopt 
in our country because government has not developed a law yet. One of the possible 
reasons might be that it is a more difficult aspect than getting married because it has an 
effect on a third person: the child. Despite this fact, homosexual people have not lost 
their hope and they go on with their objective. 
       
       Some people, who are not necessarily gay people, help them clearly. They all 
together have organised several demonstrations not only in Spain, but also around the 
world. On the other hand, few demonstrations have also be organized against these ones 
by groups of people who are totally in disagreement with this purpose. Some of the 
evidences show that there are also two different opinions about the theme of adopting 
children as, in the other one, about getting married.
	
       It has been said that these two prior problems are not all the difficulties that a 
gay person or a gay couple can suffer in his common life. Since civilisation began, some 
people possibly have felt love and attraction towards people of the same sex. But they 
probably didn't dare to tell other people about it. In addition to this, few of them would 
not be aware of this feeling. If somebody had the courage of talking about it to someone 
else, he would probably be transfered to prison or to a mental hospital, or even he would 
possibly be killed.
	
       Even in these days, homosexuality is not recognized like a right of people in 
underdeveloped countries where democracy doesn't exist. For instance, we were in this 
same situation fifty years ago. Homosexuality has been recognized by many Spanish 
people recently in comparison with other countries. As late as 2005, some citizens go on 
with the thought of being a gay person is an illness and it must be treated.
	
       So then, we have seen that there are several problems in the usual life of a gay 
person. The most important of these ordinary difficulties are the possibility of getting 
married, which has been resolved, and the other one about adopting children. On the 
basis of what has been said, my personal opinion about this argument is that I am 
clearly agree with the idea that gay people can get married. However, I would mantain 
that gay people are possibly prepared to take care a child but a part of society is not used 
to this idea. Maybe, many years will have to pass for getting this last purpose and then 
all people probably will begin to accept the real idea that everybody has the same rights.
   
