									
	Since a few years, Spain has become a country where many immigrants try to 
come in. For this reason, the percentage of immigrants has risen in our society in 
modern times and maybe this is the principal reason that explains why racism has 
increased in Spain at the same time in the last years. As a result of this, there are two 
different and opposite opinions about this theme which is one of the most serious 
problems challenging the government today. In this essay, I will try to show the main 
difficulties that affect immigrant people and how Spanish society face up this current 
argument.

	To begin with, I will develop the main causes that explain these immigrant 
movements. First of all is that one linked with the idea of earning money to survive. The 
majority of immigrant people have a family who can't survive in his native country. So 
the father is usually the person in charge who come to Spain trying to get a job and 
sending almost all the money he gains. Secondly, many immigrants who have 
established in our country persuade relatives or friends who stay in their poor countries 
yet to cross the frontier area. Finally, they frequently believe that they will find a job, 
normally hard activities in agriculture, that Spanish people don't like. The explanation 
of this last cause is that a lot of employers would engage them even when they were in 
an illegal situation in our country.  

	Another point is the problem that immigrant people have to suffer for getting 
their objectives. One of the most painful difficulties is crossing the frontier area. We 
have to remember that a number of immigrants who want to come in Spain have to 
cross several frontiers. Despite all their efforts and sufferings, many times they don't get 
their illusions. On the other hand, a few of them achieve their objectives. However, 
most of immigrants do not find in the new territory all what they hoped. They have to 
work very hard for many hours (in some cases even 14 or 16 hours) to earn much less 
money than a Spanish employee. Probably this explains why some immigrant people 
accept illegal jobs at the end. An illustration of this is the sale of pirate CD's, clothes,... 
At these days, government is trying to solve this problem imposing several measures. 
For instance, everybody who buy a pirate CD or DVD would be fined. Presumably, 
loneliness is the most horrible experience felt by immigrant people. They have to face 
up all these problems without the support of their families and friends.

	To conclude I present the different points of view about the immigration in our 
country. A part of Spanish society, possibly impelled by racism, think that immigrants 
in Spain constitute a problem. These people show their point of view generalising that 
all of them stay in Spain as vandals who steal, kill,... or, in their opinion, snatch away 
their own jobs. On the other hand, the opposite group believe that immigration is not a 
problem at all. They think, for example, that immigrant people increase the Spanish 
birth rate and do the jobs that people don't want to accept although these hard activities 
are very important for the development of the economy in our country.

	On the whole this essay has dealt with the drawbacks of a group of society 
which is very important for the development of any country. This theme is usually 
linked with the problem of racism. Considering all these points, one possible solution to 
the discrimination towards immigrants by a group of Spanish citizens could be to 
remembering that Spain has been till not so much years a emigrant country. So that, 
Spanish emigrants, who often were in a similar situation that the present immigrants in 
our country, had the support they needed and it was favourable for our economy. Our 
behaviour ought to be the same, but always with limits.  
