 We can daily see that the car park continues increasing in Madrid and this can not be compatible with the 
quality of life and the health of the citizens. Every time there are more drivers who have car and who 
want to use them for theirs displacements for the city, creating serious urban problems. 
First, it harms the quality of life of all, in relation to the health, safety and provoking the deterioration of 
the public spaces. Secondly, the traffic impedes the mobility of all and even of the own drivers.
The trips in car increase constant due to different reasons as the bad designed of the city that allows 
dispersed urbanizations without sufficient services or collective transport.
 It seems that the city does not import for us, the only important thing is that we could circulate in our cars 
at any hour and in any place.
The excess of traffic vehicles damages the urban vegetation and the buildings.
The urban space is necessary for the life of the neighbourhoods and the cars need very much space to 
move and to be parked so circulate by foot is a serious problem to people with carts, with wheelchair, 
with children or with disabilities for the mobility. 
The zones in which there is more movement have always streets fill with cars, because there are more 
drivers who use the car, due to the collective transport can not give a good service. With the congestion 
the speed of traffic is very low and the collective transport as the buses and taxis are less attractive for the 
citizens.
 If there are more parking places in the central areas, there are more cars that try to come so, there is more 
bottleneck, worse traffic, and worse service of the collective transport.
To reduce the number of long displacements in car, it is necessary to improve the connections with the 
centres of the city. 
It is necessary to learn when and where use the car. The car is very useful and is necessary but it is not 
possible to use constant. It is necessary to facilitate the parking places and residents' garages to be able to 
leave the car in house and be able to do it safely.
To reduce the environmental problems is necessary to achieve that the citizens use bicycle and collective 
transport. Also is necessary to construct vehicles with engines that reduce the emission so, much of the 
problems of health might be finish.
With all of this the health and the safety will be improved, we will have more environmental quality and 
the gases of greenhouse effect will diminish.
It is necessary to use effectively the space of the streets. In the places where there is more conflict should 
be more collective transport. The minor use of cars in neighbourhoods and city allows recovering space 
for the daily life of the citizens.
Improving the collective internal transport to the city, with a fluid traffic of buses, with good interchanges 
and good connected, would be useful for all of us.
In the centre of the city, the main system of movement has to be the collective transport. In the 
peripheries it is necessary facilitate the interchange among the private vehicles and the collective 
transport. Another help, above all inside the neighbourhoods, will be the bicycle, which use is increasing 
in other European cities.
With all of these solutions I believe that the traffic problems in Madrid (or in other city) would be 
reduced.
But to reduce the traffic problem each of us has to help to manage it.

