 
Five thousand four hundred dead men in a year is a number that reflects a 
reality. To try to reduce the number and to stimulate the drivers of the 
responsibility who have before the steering wheel, had been created the card 
for points.
Between the models to choose the card, others were more sanctioning and 
more educational; ours is an intermediate model, who is the one that is 
applied in France and Luxembourg. This new card grants a few points to 
every driver, who is discounted according to the different committed 
infractions perceived by the agent of the corresponding order. The Project of 
Law establishes twelve points for driver, that they diminish to eight in case of 
new drivers with less than three years of card and in drivers who after losing 
all his initial points obtain again the driving licence. The system does not 
eliminate the fines. The minor infractions will be sanctioned by fine of 90 
Euros more or less; the serious ones, with fine from 91 to 300 Euros, and the 
very serious ones, from 301 to 600 Euros. The fine takes a series of 
consequences that go from the economic sanction to the retreat of the card, 
and now also the loss of points. 
I think that it is a contradiction that the same points take from you for 0,75 
give in the control of alcoholism, that for circulating in the opposite direction. 
One is a potential danger and other one a real danger. The same thing 
happens when you see that it is equal of convict a semaphore to skip in red, 
that to drive with 0,25 of alcohol. The ambiguity is see clearly in the fact that 
for circulating without system of illumination in situations of bad visibility  take 
3 points from you and when you drive under the effects of narcotics and 
similar grieve with 6 points. 
The new points system for driving has some problems. One is that inside the 
DGT there has to be a hard control of the bases of information of the drivers 
in order that each one could find out in any moment of what points has and 
what alternatives they offer him to recover them. And finally I believe that the 
formation is very important. The centre for the recovery of courses must be 
accessible and adapted to the driver, because there can not be compared a 
driver who has had seven tests  of alcoholism positive with other one has 
taken away the card from him for speaking by the mobile phone 6 times in 
one year.
And undoubtedly other one of the problems is what will happen with all the 
drivers who remain without card and who need theirs car for theirs work or 
theirs daily life. I think that the card of points should starts giving lessons in 
the colleges.
 In Spain there is not exist a social conscience and a very important 
responsibility yet.
 To priori the approach of the card of points is good, the idea is good and 
has worked in other countries.

