
It seems that nowadays the topics and the typical society behaviours are changing 
fastly. This changes, are related to all the society fields as economy, 
communications and obviously, in sight  to the sexuality and relationship . On that 
essay I am going to explain my point of view about gay marriage and the possibility 
of adoption between them and its repercussion on society. Since the past year, 
approximately its possible to get married with a person of your same sex with the 
advantages that the marriage gives to the independence of a person as well as to the 
economic context .Has been also approved the possibility of adopting children for 
being educated by them.

First of all, it is generally believed that on recent years, the society has developed a 
modern point of view related to personal relationships. It is also true that 
homosexuality is a sexual orientation that has been present since remote past. 
Homosexuality exists since human appeared and it is another sexual orientation 
which anybody of us could experience on its own life without being considered a 
devious behaviour. For that reason the civil right of marriage for gay people must 
be considered. Owing that, homosexuals must have their rights recognitioned, 
marriage gives some advantages concerning to the familiar economy. Being married 
is easy to receive discounts on taxes on rent declaration and facilityes when a 
marriaged couple adopt a child.

Another point of view is related to religious moral. Generally the religious opinion 
in that context, catholic religion concretely, does not accept homosexual 
relactionships and obviously neither the marriage. It seems a little bit contradictory 
because as catholic religions preaches that, all of us, without any kind of exclusions, 
are God son's, and every sin, considering homosexualuality as a sin ,like they 
consider it, must be forgiven by compassionate God. The catholic point of view 
about gays and lesbians is quite contradictory as we could read a few weeks ago. A 
Vatican letter to the international press publicaly condemned the homosexuality, 
considering it as a mental deviation. For that reason the marriage possibility 
between person of the same genre is not allowed from catholic leaders, and of 
course catholicism doesn't practice that kind of marriages.

Finally,  the only oportunity for an homosexual couple which desires to get 
marriage is to have recourse to the civil administration. Since a couple of summers 
it is possible to marry with an homosexual couple. Another important notice is the 
legalization of the adoption between homosexual couples. This event has becamed 
a social  discussion. Different points of view do exist. For example, at the recent 
Newsweek enterview, the fifty seven per cent of the enterviewed adults affirmed to 
think that gays could be good fathers as well heterosexual ones. Only a thirty one 
per cent thought the opposite opinion. Possibly the aceptation from the whole 
society will appear with the education on the future generations because it seemed 
that for the older members of the society and the religious citizens is not easy to 
assimilate the truth  related to  gay marriage and adoption. It isn't also prooved the 
education efectiveness given from a same couple genre to their adopted children, 
actually is so soon to judge it .

So then, this essay has considered the reality that the homosexuality supposes on 
our society and the proximity of this relations to us. I have also described the 
separation that the catholic religion marks between homosexuality and the 
correspondent marriages. Another idea has been covered, gay adoption is allowed 
in this country becoming a pioneer on gay adoptions. Considering all these points, 
it is reasonable to think that both, gay marriage and adoption is a clear advance on 
society, but we must be cautious in relation to them because the repercusion on 
society will appear along the years and the settlement of these early approved 
rights.






