
Nowadays and due to the globalized world's philosophy, the society is 
experimenting a human exodus. A recent study from the spanish inmigration 
institute, indicates that, the number of inmigrants in Spain has risen around 7% 
of the spanish population. The approximated number is three million persons. 
Some decades ago, spanish emigration to foreing countries as Germany, France 
or Argentina was very common. One possible argument, and according to the 
history in Spain, was the precarious employ and the economic poverty during 
the Franco's regime. That past event explain us that emigration phenomenon 
exist in both ways. We, refering to spanish, have been inmigrants and is also 
logical, as seems during our history, and it seems to be the time to be the hosts 
and time for being considerated with the persons who comes to Spain looking 
for a new life and an opportunity.  

It has been prooved that inmigration phenomenon has increased in the last 
decades and more concretely during last years. As a recent recount shows the 
number of inmigrants, making reference to southamerican persons, has reached 
historical numbers. Appointing, for example, Ecuatorian number of inmigrants 
in Spain, ist possible to account a 400.000 community. It seems to be an 
important number considering the distance between both country nationalities. It 
has been prooved that the aerial transport advance has supposed an important 
help to the distance handicap for inmigration. Psicologic studies explains how 
separation between family members the inmigration suposes, cause depression, 
and other psicological deseases. So it shows that it isn't easy for an inmigrant to 
acept living far from his fatherland and also miles away from his family.  

Considering a different point of view, this crowd movement could be considered 
dangerous in different aspects. Making reference to the past events that 
happened in France with inmigrants, is easy to understand the potential troubles 
wich could appear with inmigration and society integration. Considering France 
as one of the most world's developped countries it is observable that the 
integration of inmigrants still being a problem. Unadapted inmigrants causes 
disturbs and reflecting an anger behaviour. Having a look of spanish 
delinquence mafias, the number of foreing bands becoming from east europe or 
southamerican gang bands as risen.Some evidences shows that bands like Ñetas 
or Lating kings, appears at the top of the most violent and murderer gang 
movements in Spain. Another point in common between some inmigrants which 
cames to spain is that most of them arrives spain without legal permission. This 
morning appeared on press the following notice: "The police has arrested a 
rumanian band involucrated in protitution organizaton". That kind of notices 
reflects the dark face of inmigration.

On the other hand, like is observable on  cosmopolitan societies, the mixture of 
etnies and civilizations has been positive for the reciprocal comprehesion. As its 
observable on  the most important and cosmopolitan cities all over the worl, the 
union of races and different cultures contributes to the brotherhood and the 
comunication between the citizens. Having a look of cities as London, Paris, 
Madrid or New York is easy to appreciate the adittion of different races and the 
interdependence that exists between them. Following recent stadistics from the 
most popular cities of the world, explains that, main public sectors of the 
population services, are formed by a high percentage of foreigners of each 
country city studied.

Considering all these points, the most reasonable agument is the conclussion of 
the necessity of the inmigration. People movements around the world seems 
logical, the resources nedless or better living desires, cause inmigrants to look 
for another ways of living, as demostrates a recent questionnaire for inmigrants 
in Spain. Basically, must be exist a way for compatibilize inmigration with good 
integration results. In other words, the arrival of foreigner to any country must 
have determinated requirements as visa documents and a clear criminal historial, 
concretely to avoid future problems and making easy an employing found.

Concluding, this essay has resumed the repercussion of the inmigration on our 
society. It has been described the main problems concerning to inmigration in 
Spain as well as the population  increase according to that event. Problems and 
its consequent danger of inmigration are also pressents on the essay, like the 
aparition of gang bands in our country wich used to exist in foreing countries. 
Ilegal inmigrants have been exposed in the text and the possible problems that 
finds an inmigrant when arrives to Spain. For ending, the positive side of 
inmigration explained above,. remarks that, in the end, the union of races and 
cultures contributes for common comunication and human progress.

 
