       Marihuana or cannabis it's the most common name to talk about Ganja. 
Ganja is "The Weed of God" for an ancient tribe originated in Etiophia the 
Rastafaris. The proposal about legalization of this substance is nowadays 
known by the public opinion.You could hear about it in tv and radio,occuping all 
plots you could ever imagine.So,is possible the legalization of cannabis in actual 
society?It's a good or a bad idea? There are many responses in both ways.
       People you could meet any day in any place probably know something 
about "Marijuana". For example, some researchers have made statics asking 
about 1000 people about the legalization of cannabis. These statics shows that 
the percenteage of people who say yes to legalization grows much bigger 
between the habitual smokers. In front of this, the percenteage of people who 
haven't smoke it and are opposed to legalization increases . This indicates 
that people that doesn't try marihuana known it,but they are not agree with 
legalization. Moreover,the governments of the powerful countries of the world 
are oppossite to legalization and this causes legalization very difficult. 
       In the other side, they exist a lot of associations of activist in favor of 
legalization.These associations try to concienciate people about the benefits 
of the cannabis with true and very proved information about this special kind 
of plant.First, cannabis is used as a natural medicine since 2737 b.C. while 
actual drugs have need around 10 or 50 years to be safe.Second, tobbaco and 
alcohol causes a lot of deaths every year, it's known at the day that cannabis 
it's less dangerous than this two legal drugs. Third, is used in the treatment 
of more than 100 different ills. But not everything could be benefits, the 
abuse of cannabis could provoke mental distorsions like schizofrenia or 
depression if you start smoking so young. Furthermore legalization could 
probably solve this. 
       If marihuana gets legalized the governments will have control of the 
distribution and comerce of it,this mean much better grass and cheaper. In 
addittion the narcotrific will be finished or very damage because it will lost a 
lot of money offering cheaper prices for the substance and worst quality . So 
cannabis would be sold in shops that could control the age of the 
purchasers.This is one of the worst frigthenings of the people who opposse to 
legalization because they think that this would do it more accessable and the 
number of consumers will increase a lot. This probably doesn't pass througt 
it's minds if they know that the number of consumers it's has been 
duplicated in the last decade and the drug it's not legal yet. In other way, 
exist the frigthen of marihuana as a "bridge substance".
       A research made in Holland,where marihuana is legal and this make the 
city every month full of tourist, shows that cannabis is not an accessable door 
to other substances. Meanwhile, the bigger percenteage of the society look 
trough a mirror graduated by the sector of communications,this makes that 
people only knows the bad things about cannabis. For example, it's very 
difficult hear in tv that marihuana helps to prevent epileptic attacks or many 
other benefits. You could see cannabis in comedy programs and movies,or in an 
argue about the dangers for the public environment. If you want to know other 
information about cannabis you must search it's there but not at the hand.
       To conclude,legalization could problaby be the solution to many problems 
but it will have some incovenients. So, in many countries the researchs about 
medical benefits of cannabis have make some governments start studiying the 
possibility of use it as a medical drug. Also this could open a door to legalize 
cannabis as leisure drug, the aspect of cannabis that is worst considerated by 
society. Finally, cannabis could be legalize some day,but not today because the 
most of people see the "The Weed of God" from the Rastafaris as a dangerous 
substance.  
       
