	The new laws about the driving license rule by a points system have displeased a lot 
of people. This new law will give to every driver a number of points that will be substracted 
when the driver break a traffic law. Moreover, is a better system to prevent the traffic 
accidents but some people thinks that it's a bit hard.
	The new traffic plan consists basically: you have 12 points if you reach a lower rank 
of points you could be punished with a traffic ticket up to 600€. First you must know that it 
could be substradted 6,4,3 or 2 points it depends on your infringement. That's one of the 
aspects that begins most of the argues about the new law. That's because the most points 
you could have in your account is 12 and you could loose the 50% of points at one 
time.Furthermore, you could recover some points assisting to some reeducation classes. But 
that it's not sufficient for a lot of people because if you loose all points you get your license 
restricted.
	Nowadays lot of people uses cars to work or in holidays, and the idea of loosing the 
driving license it's very worriying for everybody. Meanwhile the government tryes to 
decrease until a 40% the accidents in roads with this new law. But this doesn't convince to 
workers like transporters or bus drivers whose pass a lot of hours in the road and could 
infrinige more traffic laws. So these kind of workers are worried about loosing its jobs and 
demands an specific driving license. In the other side are the automovilistic clubs that are 
very happy with this new law. And in the middle of all of this are the driving schools that 
they doesn't know yet what they will teach to new students.
	All of this causes a lot of tension but when people began to see it's efficiency in 
preventing traffic accidents they could probably have another opion about this law. Also, 
it's proved that the insurance companies are very beneficiated by this new law, because 
more people is thinking in hiring an insurance about a subsidial for the withdrawal of the 
driving license. Moreover, if this new law reduces the number of accidents it doesn't really 
matter who makes more beneficts with this new law, in my own opinion.
	This project has been aproved in some countries of European Union like Great 
Britain,France,Germany and Italy with very good results. That's is sure because this system 
concienciate people because they don't want to suffer the consecuences of loosing the 
license.In addition, this law have saved a lot of lifes and this is it's proposal.So the 
introduction of this law is better than it appears at first.
	To conclude, the law is aproved and it only rest it's application. It probably needs 
some changes and additions to satisfy the needs of every driver. Moreover this law will be 
one of the solutions needed to reduce the number of accidents and infringements in the 
roads.


