
	Usually, most people spend their youth attending classes at school and some of 
them, later on, at university. It is an important thing because education attempts to get 
young people ready for adult life by giving them some specific knowledge. However, 
many people see time spent at school or at university as a waste of time, something 
completely useless. In this essay I intend to show several different points of view on this 
theme.
	Nowadays it is considered that educational system has not the high quality it 
should have. The new acts the government are creating, want the system to get better 
because there is a huge number of students who do not succeed and fail their 
evaluations. Nevertheless I think the problem is not all in the system because it has been 
changed so many times and the result is still a failure. Maybe the fact that students 
cannot find any inspiration on what they are studying makes them believe the school 
time is useless. For example, we all know a student is not going to like every subject but 
a teacher should be able to make it a little interesting for him/her. But it is not only the 
teachers fault because students have to show some interest on learning new things.
	In addition to this problem, students have to choose their way so quickly. After 
passing all the exams after school, they have to decide what they want to do in more or 
less just a week. The last year at school is full of stressful moments until the day of their 
last evaluation, so in my opinion they should have at least a month to determine what 
they want to do. Perhaps if this period of time is bigger, the failure on the first year at 
university will decrease a little because students will be doing what they really want 
after having done some research.
	On a different point of view, education is not wasteful because it can broaden 
your mind. Attending classes do not mean just learning about a specific theme, it also 
means knowing different people. For example, they can teach you more than others 
about a different culture if they are foreigners. You could learn to see life through a 
different perspective. Each person has different habits, so knowing them could makes 
you see the things are not always what they seem to be.
	On the other hand, people could think time spent at school is wasteful because 
they do not teach what they should. As a child, a person has to learn some global 
knowledge in some fields such as mathematics or language, but s/he should know what 
the meanings of words like good behaviour, sexuality, tolerance, respect or freedom are. 
If children learn that type of things when they are young, probably there will not be so 
much violence among them or on the streets and there will not be the problems that 
exist on this moment. The way children of these days are taught is the way the adult life 
will be lived on the future. 
       It does not mean the other subjects are less important, it means there should be a 
way at school for teaching those things, because nowadays children have not very clear 
thoughts about those things. For example, the sexuality. I do not think that children 
should know everything about it, but at some ages it is almost basic for them to know 
some things. They should know the changes they are suffering, in a physical way and in 
a psychological way. It is not easy for a teenager to live with doubts about this topic; it 
is a difficult period on life. You have to take some decisions that will affect all your life 
from this moment on and a help at school will be welcome not just for the students as 
for their parents as well.
       So then, I have considered several points of view on what the time at school is, a 
useless period or not. In my opinion, having described some reasons for these thoughts, 
I do not think the education is something useless. The system has to change but it 
cannot do it radically. It has to go step by step. However, the system has not the fault of 
all this failure. Teachers, as well as students, should know better how to do their job. 
Furthermore, things that are taught at schools should be changed. Personally speaking, I 
do not feel education is a wasteful time but I agree that some things have to be changed 
to get a better one.

