       In our present society homosexuality is creating a great discussion about the 
rights of gay people to get married and as a result of that, the adoption of children by 
them. Nowadays, being gay is not as bad as it was years before but in several cultures it 
is still a very bad thing. Nicaragua has began considering homosexuality illegal in 1992. 
In Spain it was punished by the laws until 1979 and a new act for gay couples to get 
married in a civilian way has now been approved. In this essay I will discuss different 
viewpoints on this topic.
       Many people would say they are for gay marriages no matter what because they 
think gay people has the same rights as straight ones. This argument seems to make 
sense, because everybody has the same rights as human beings, so it does not seem 
there is anything against them to get married and live together as any other heterosexual 
couple does.
       On the other hand, many people seems to feel gay marriages are something 
against nature. For example, religious people consider homosexuality as some kind of 
disease, something that has some type of cure. In fact, The Pope has said on a document 
published on November of the present year that gay dispositions are 'an objective 
disorder' and considers homosexual acts as serious sins. That is the reason for not 
wanting homosexual people or any one who supports their ideas inside the religious 
world, as a priest or something like that. This does not seem a logical argument because 
religious people are always proud about their tolerance but in this case they are 
betraying their own believes.
       The real problem arrived when the Government decided to play an active role 
and creates a new law to allow gay people to get married. There were a meeting on the 
streets against this law. The government opposite group led the meeting reading a 
document asking the Government to change the new law. The outcome of the meeting 
was a politic war. From the Government side it was said there were around two 
thousand hundred people at the meeting, but the opposite side said there were a million 
and a half. This viewpoint is exposed to show how it is considered politicians make 
society problems as personal as they could to obtain a higher number of votes for the 
next election because it seems that they are not solving the problem anyway.
       A recent research has shown most people are for gay marriages. The readers of a 
famous newspaper have expressed their opinions about the topic and most of them are 
positive about it. It seems that homosexual marriage is not against any other right but it 
is for theirs. However, many other people think that these marriages never can be 
compared with heterosexual ones. This variety of points of view makes seem reasonable 
to say that people is taking this as some kind of race. It appears to be they are not 
thinking on any other people's rights but theirs. It could be considered as a challenge for 
earning the maximum number of rights for each sexual preference. In spite of all those 
viewpoints, there is another group of people who think these marriages cannot be a bad 
thing but they want them not to be called as 'marriages', they want them to be called 
'civil unions'. They said calling them 'marriages' is wrong because the meaning of this 
word makes the reference to a couple based on a man and a woman, not on a couple 
with same sex members.
       To sum up, it has been shown that it is almost impossible to reach a conclusion 
which satisfies each side. Since every person has his or her own opinion about the topic 
there will always be differences. Anyway, it has been proved that whereas 
homosexuality is considered as something bad, there will be a discussion on every topic 
which talks about it. No matter what it is about, if homosexuality is there, it seems that 
there will always be more than two points of view.

