     
	The legalisation of Marijuana is a topic discussed by a good part of society for 
some time. There are several different opinions. It's a fact that in some countries it is 
completely legal and in other countries it can't be used even for pharmaceutics, but we 
must have in account that normally issues involving any kind of drugs are difficult and 
controversial. I am going to try to expose the most important viewpoints about if 
cannabis should be legalised or should not.

	In some people opinion, mostly church relatives and conservative groups, the use 
of marijuana should be forbidden at all levels. Some of them would argue that the use of 
a soft drug as cannabis would not lead to anything good because it can create addiction 
and even get you to the called hard drugs like cocaine and heroine. Besides of all this, 
the culture of marijuana has always been connected to hippies and "Rastafarian" 
communities which were never seen good by most of this conservative groups, as they 
represented a change in society for the old way of behaviour.

	There is other group, formed mainly by young people and those who usually use 
this drug for personal use, who thing marijuana should be completely legal. They might 
claim that it is a decision of each one and that cannabis is not only less prejudicial than 
tobacco, but it has some proprieties that can be used in medicine. In other hand, legal or 
illegal marijuana will still be used by a good part of the population of the world, and being 
it's use and trade illegal, some people, specially from gangs, are earning too much 
money and using it to do other things illegal too and very probably more dangerous and 
prejudicial for society. If marijuana would be legal this would not happen (only with hard 
drugs).
        
        Finally, there is another opinion, more general, that suggests that marijuana 
should be legalized but only for some specific uses. This people would argue that it must 
not be used as a stimulant of the senses, to alter the state of the mind just to have fun, 
that is, not using it by yourself, but use it under the prescriptions of a doctor or an expert 
and with a certain purpose. Research suggests that it can be used to diminish the pain 
on people with cancer and use it on people with HIV because it stimulates the appetite. 
It is useful for treating asthma, for the relief of muscle pain and spasms and to help 
reduce the frequency of epileptic seizures to name some medical properties. Cannabis 
has been used for medical purposes since a long time, it was used in Chinese traditional 
medicine.
	
        According to these viewpoints, the more reasonable appears to be the last point. 
It is a fact that marijuana can have prejudicial effects for health but it's true that it has 
some good properties that can help us to get through diseases, what has been 
demonstrated by a good number of researches and investigation about cannabis effects. 
The first opinion it's to strict and misses the good points about this plant, but the second 
opinion it's not worrying about the danger of using cannabis with no control at all.

	In conclusion, there are different opinions about the legalisation of marijuana and 
somehow all of them are justified. Some people think it cannot be legalized, some think 
it should be, but probably the major opinion is the one that consists on use it to just 
some proposes, mainly medical. A possible solution to the problem of the legalisation of 
cannabis would be to allow its controlled use, just in the cases it would be needed or 
would help to a good purpose.
