
 	Gay marriage and adoption it's a subject a lot of people is talking about this 
days. Some people agree with it and some does not and there are lots of 
explanations, moral as well as scientific to support this opinions but the fact is that 
in some countries gay people are allowed to get married and adopt children. 
Personally, I agree with the idea of gay couples getting married and adopting 
children too. In this essay I will try to explain why I think gay people should be free 
to get married and legally capable of adopting children.

        First, in my point of view, gay people are just equal to straight people, and 
technically they are, as it's said on legal documents as the Spanish Constitution so 
they should have the same rights. But this is not entirely true, because they, on 
several countries, are not allowed to get married. The decision of getting married is 
taken by two grown up people who are able to decide by themselves, no matter 
their condition or even their sex. It's true that traditionally marriage has been an 
heterosexual institution, but nowadays things has changed, and homosexuality has 
become from being a crime (it's still a sin in Christianity) to a condition accepted by 
a good part of society. I agree with it because it's about the choice of two people 
and not of the opinion of society.

 	It's true that marriages have been as a tradition, mainly in Catholic Church, 
for procreation and ensuring the continuation of the species. But what about when 
two people, a man and a woman, get married but then they discover they are 
sterile, it means they are not able, for physical reasons, to have children, or simply 
they just decide not to have them? Should they be legally banned to get married? I 
don't think so. Anyway, there are other solutions as adoption, what I'm going to talk 
about later. In my point of view, the denial of same-sex marriages it's caused by 
the intolerance of the people who are just to attached to old traditions and strict 
religious doctrines to see that a homosexual person is just a person, who loves his 
or her couple and wants to get married, as any other.
 
 	Talking about adopting children is more complex. I agree too with a 
homosexual couple to give home to a child. In my view-point, a same-sex couple 
can be as capable as a homosexual couple on educating a child and of course 
giving him or her the love parents are supposed to give to their children, a house 
and the chance to have a happy family. It's true that, as many psychologists say, 
for a good develop of the child's personality, It's necessary the influences of a 
masculine part and a feminine part. But is known for almost everyone that this not 
always happens as there are lost of single mothers or widow parents or even a 
single person who adopts a child. Maybe for some people the ideal happy family is 
the standard of a mother, a father and the child but I think there are families with 
other scheme who are happy too.     

 	Some people think that if a child grows up with surrounded by gay people, 
then he or she would be gay or will have sexual identity confusion. There are 
neither scientific nor psychological prove for that as in my opinion, it's not true. As 
some studies say, children grown up with homosexual parents tend to be more 
tolerant and conscious. In my opinion, being a good or a bad parent or being 
capable of raise your children is not a fact of sexuality, it's a fact of the capacity of 
love and responsibility.

 	In conclusion, and in my point of view, a gay couple should be treated like a 
heterosexual couple and have the same rights as well as the same duties. They 
should be allowed to get married and, if they are capable of, to adopt children too. 
In some countries both things are possible for this couples, and in not a very long 
time, I think all developed countries will legally allow them. But I think social 
acceptation will take longer because provably for a good part of society is hard to 
accept changes as big as this.
       

      
