
	In our present society, a new law has been established in Spain since the 
last 1st  January of 2006: `the antismoking law'  which consists on forbidding 
people from smoking in public areas, providing the desertion of tobacco, 
preventing or reducing cigarettes consumption and respecting non smoker's 
rights. This law has been adopted as well in other countries as in England and 
in Italy where they have stopped the consumption of tobacco in all public 
places, whereas in France, they have adopted an increase of prices in order to 
diminish tobacco sales.  It is believed that this law is so much dictatorial and on 
the other hand, other people believe that is a light law and it has to be stricter. 
In this essay, I intend to argue if the antismoking law is effective or good 
enough to prevent smoking.

	Firstly, I personally believe that the law could be harder because the 
government has given restaurants, pubs, etc. the possibility to provide their 
establishments of less of 100 m2 for smoking or non smoking people. Most of 
them have chosen for smokers and in my own opinion this has not got any 
acceptance because the aim of the law is to prevent smoking, not to ignore it. 
Nevertheless, some people feel that forbidding the consumption of tobacco in 
public areas can have a detrimental effect on trade in bars or restaurant because 
if they establish a bar for non smokers, they will loose money. Personally 
speaking I feel that for staff's working of those places are in a serious hazard 
since they have to be a hard passive smokers and in the long run this could 
have repercussions on the worker's health in such a negative way.

	Moreover, there are those who think that smoking bans are an 
infringement of civil liberties because they are 'expelled' from their work places 
and they have to smoke outdoors, loosing time and salary. However, I am of 
the opinion that if the law could be harder or lighter, the tobacco consumer will 
continue on asking about their rights, for that reason I think that the law is so 
permissive and it has to be established in each public places, not allowing 
smoking. Furthermore, I consider that non smokers have been bearing smoke of 
others during the history, so why smokers can not support this law that can 
give benefits for all of us? We have to respect people's health, if you want to die 
with a cigarette in your hand, do it at home since others do not want.

	Finally, I strongly feel that government is not thinking to solve this 
problem at all because nowadays it appears to me that tobacco companies are 
trying to keep tobacco under security since they are diminishing their prices in 
order to raise sales, although financial experts argue that this is the economical 
balance since tobacco is one of the greatest inversions in Spain. In addition, 
personally speaking I believe that the fact that more than 120.000 people die 
every year because of smoking related diseases such as cancer or heart-attacks 
are  the only reason that something else has to be done as the financial aid to 
have an expert treatment for those who want to give up smoking to stop this 
number of deaths.

	To sum up, firstly I have considered in this essay that the antismoking 
law has to be harder because smokers are not being respectful and for this 
reason they are harming people's health and moreover they are not following 
the law itself. Secondly, I believe that government has to improve sanitary 
treatments to give up smoking; it will be easier reducing the number of smokers 
to prevent the consumption of tobacco in public areas.




































