

      Throughout history avian flu, also known as bird flu or avian 
influenza, has appeared around four or five times in a century. The 
first time it was identified was in Italy hundred years ago. Avian 
influenza is an infectious viral illness caused by Flu's A type stock 
which can affect every bird and several species of mammals, like 
pigs. It can spreads in the air and it survives longer in cold weather. 
Furthermore, it can be transmitted by contaminated feed, equipment, 
water and clothing. However, there is no evidence that the virus can 
survive in well cooked food and also we can not get infected by a 
person. H5N1 is the main subtype of avian flu which mutes in a quick 
way and it tends to acquire the virus genus that can infect to other 
kind of animals and people too. In this essay, I will discuss the 
different solutions and measures that countries have adopted to avoid 
this illness in their society.
      
      
      It is possible to adopt several measures trying to reduce the 
risks of world's public health: stopping the epidemic's propagation in 
poultry populations. This strategy will reduce the human's exposition 
with birds, as Rumania done in their avian influenza focuses. The 
Rumanian health authorities have sacrificed all poultry farmyards in 
the infected localities and they have installed disinfection filters in the 
routes of access. Moreover, they have processed the virus in those 
focuses where birds died because of avian influenza. This solution has 
been adopted in Asian area as Vietnam, Honk Kong, China and 
Indonesia because it is the best way to control this epidemic. 
However, this argument can be considered because the poultry 
struggle supposes economic problems since those countries where 
farmyard birds are a good increase of money and food, although the 
avian flu outbreaks can be devastated.
      
      
      
      Some governments, as in the case of France, have presented 
the national plan against avian influenza. They establish it to prepare 
protection means to the population, it contains: the production of 
enough masks and antiviral medicines like vaccines which are 
important because they have a decisive part in the first phases of the 
virus. Furthermore, they think that they have to reinforce these 
actions in the European and International level and also to help those 
affected countries because it could be good for France (in this case), 
at the same time, since they are protecting themselves with more 
effectiveness. According to prime healthy minister of France, Xavier 
Betrand, reinforcing the information to travellers in the airports, 
travel agencies and turquoise community living in France could be a 
good measure to establish. However, these measures of control have 
to be applied and with good surveillance if not epidemics can persist 
during years.
      
      
      Spanish authorities support the prohibition to import farming 
products and maintain the maxim surveillance in the inspective 
frontier posts as other European countries have done, like England or 
Germany. Spain carries out a rigorous surveillance system to face the 
avian flu. Till the moment, they have not found any evidence that the 
virus could be transmitted person-to-person. However, the flu virus 
tends to experiment antigenic changes, for this reason it is necessary 
to watch over the flu's world situation. The Spanish plan is based on 
preparing all precise devices to face the case of getting infected as 
quarantine that could be another option to take when a flu influenza 
could appear, despite of killing all farmyard poultry. Moreover, Spain 
as France has adverted and given information to avian producers, 
autonomy communities and other collectives about how to detect a 
possible case of avian flu. The main symptoms it produces are: fever, 
cough, sore throat, muscle aches, conjunctivitis, and in severe cases 
breathing problems. The symptoms it produces in birds are bristled 
feathers and a decrease of eggs' production.
      
      
      Nevertheless, World Health Organization has sent 
recommendations to carry on. They say that the risk of appearing a 
pandemic virus will depend on the human exposition opportunities, so 
we have to control animals. Furthermore, the production of vaccines 
that have to be in a constantly change since the flu's world situation 
change and they have to introduce adjustements. The coordinator of 
United Nations has announced they will need 1500 million of dollars 
to help countries and international organizations to struggle against 
flu influenza and to get prepared to a possible pandemic between 
humans doing an effective control of the situation.
      
      
      To sum up, this essay has presented solutions for avian flu that 
seem to be well activated in almost all European and Asian countries. 
No one can predict when a pandemic might occur, for that reason we 
have to be prepared to face it. Moreover, we have realized with this 
essay that is important to have solutions to solve this illness if we do 
not want to cause any world pandemic.
      
