

	In the sixties during the hippie movement cannabis became very popular. Its use was rather familiar maybe since its effects are similar to tobacco's. Despite of its usual consumption through these four decades it is still unlawful in almost every country in the world. However, in these days there is in every American an European country a large crowd who claims that it must be legal arguing a range of ideas that are not shared by an opposition that believes cannabis legalization would be a big mistake. In this essay I am going to talk about the different viewpoints people have about legalization of this soft drug.

      One of the main arguments in favour is that cannabis is not as harmful and addictive as other forbidden drugs. The legalization supporters maintain that marihuana is a natural plant, that almost should not be considered unhealthy, not a synthetic narcotic created by the hand of the human being specially designed to change peoples' behaviour. Moreover, its organic origin deals with the human body not causing important damages. In contrast, according to Ronaldo Laranjeira, professor of Psychiatry Department from San Pablo's University, the idea that marijuana is not an addictive drug is sort of a myth because the quantity of THC ( the active substance on cannabis ) has increased in the last years: <Q>.
      
      Many people assert that cannabis ban makes grow the drug traffic and enlarges criminality. Firstly, because if it would be sold in stores consented by the Government it would mean the end of black market and mafias which involves innocent immigrants who has any other way to get money, in this illegal traffic. Secondly, they point out that drug dealers usually carry out guns to protect their supply and the money obtained in their illicit business. Obviously the shops would not need this kind of protection that threat costumers' safety. This arguments are rather convincing, although, there are no researches about crimes committed by cannabis dealers so it would be difficult to confirm that it would have decreased.
      
      On the other hand, many people claim that prohibition is the right way to prevent possible problems of drug addiction. It could be maintain that a large percentage of people is not interest on the consumption because they do not like the places where it is dealt. Thereby, when drugs will be available in nice coffees and shops this important group of people will not be ashamed to try it. This will originate an affinity between them and drugs that already does not exist. This point seems to make sense, nevertheless, since seventies, when cannabis was allowed in Holland, the consumption of heroin or cocaine have been reduced and no changes are noticed in the sale of marihuana.
      
	Another justification against the legalization of marijuana is that it damages not only the user but innocent bystanders. Everybody under the influence of it may represent a potential danger because the main effects of its consumption are clumsiness and lack of orientation. These symptoms may cause fatal consequence if the user drives or operates heavy machinery afterwards. One study asserts that alcohol has something to do with 55% of all deadly highway crashes. Experts believe marijuana may present similar risks. These reasons seem to be powerful.
      
       Of course, there are people who feel indecisive about the legalization. Those seem to maintain that in some therapeutic way it would be useful to avoid stress and insomnia. Marijuana contains some relaxing substances capable of alleviate pains produced on contracted muscles and it is very helpful to make people suffering from sleeplessness feel asleep. For that reason if cannabis would be able on special markets the solution to all this troubles would be closer. Moreover, the point that state taxes the product with exceptional fees is making procrastinators realize that it could be beneficial for the economic issue. Tobacco and alcohol are already charged and they generate important earnings. These seems to be two good ideas because they both include every citizen of society in their profits.
      
      In addition, it could also be claimed that authorized selling of marijuana is right only if the State itself controls it. It has been suggested that plantation, distribution and  merchandising should be managed by the nation Government. By this way competition between private companies to get more money with a lower cost would be avoided. Besides, this would result in a growth in the Gross Domestic Product. The problem with this is some people do  not find moral to get money with any kind of drug sale.
      
      In conclusion, we can see that there is many arguments against and for cannabis legalization. Some of them deal with the decreasing of delinquency and its minor harmful effects. The points against show the addiction trouble and the potential menace that suppose people under its effect for the rest of citizens. Other argument defend the legal consumption only in specific situation and reject it in others. Anyway, this issue should be taken seriously by politicians who must take part into its solution because, as we have seen, this situation of drug dealing and unauthorized marketing can affect to people's safety.
