

      In modern times there are lot of people all around the world, as Martin Luther King or Nelson Mandela, who fight to achieve the equality of rights for the minorities. Their impact is so deep that most of the first world countries' constitutions state the equality between citizens. However, when a new collective of people emerges and demands parity in its rights, as currently is happening with gay people in Spain, not everybody seems to agree, in the way national arguments appear, and these divide people against and for. In this essay I will argue why in my point of view these should be allowed to adopt children and get married.

	Firstly, I belive that gay people only for being members of society must have identical rights that rest of inhabitants as they have the same obligations. Heterosexual people are allowed to get married with the person they love. Therefore laws, if they try to be fair for everyone, should consider the marriage as an agreement between two individuals in love either from the same sex or from diferent ones. But if this right does not exit yet is because throughout history homosexual people has been prosecuted and considered outcast. This prosecution has never permitted specific rights or privileges could be created for them. Fortunately, by the pass of time and the multiple efforts to erase the negative view of Homosexuality, today's open minded society has made possible that it can be considered a common sexual choice. Besides gay marriage is an opcional right which just involves two persons, it is not a compulsory commandment, so only the people who likes will use it, this will not affect the people who reject this law.

	Secondly, a just and democratic state must assure an economic and comfortable existence. For this reason I strongly feel the official marriage between gays and lesbians is unavoidable. For example, in case of one of them die, the one alive would not heir the minimum and compulsory percentage of the assets of his couple. Moreover, despite living together they would have to pay individual taxes as they were not a formally pair. This is why they have united to demand marriage privileges. The people who is against maintain that a marriage is, historically speaking, the union between a man and a woman, and they might be right. However, the homosexual collective is not claiming for a vocabulary term but for a range of advantages that its lack makes them minor citizens.

	It has been argued that the fact of having parents from the same sex will provoke in the children psicological problems due to the uncommon family structure. These people assert the children will not understand why they do not have a father and a mother like their little friends. In my opinion this theory only has sense if you feel paternity as a front appareance empty in the inside, instead of thinking it is the manifestation of affection between human beings. Lot of people has been risen by an indirect relative who showed his fondness and took care of him and they have grown up without any lack of love. In addition, they maintain the child will suffer because other infants will laught at them for their parents' issue, causing on the adopted youngsters traumas and obsessions. Speaking personally I  feel this prejudice will vanish in few years, and in the long run, this familiar structure change will be accept as something normal as it happens in the cases of the single mothers or the divorced parents, former controversial themes that nowadays seems to be recognized.

To sum up, recognition of the homosexual's right to join in matrimony and adopt their common children is an obligatory step to progress and the key to stop the period of exclusion they were submitted until these days. It also have been commented the legal discrimination that this collective has suffered and the troubles in relation with acceptance, initiated from old family concept. It appears to me that all these points have an easy agreement that will take place when everybody can be tolerant with the others' harmless actions.


	
	

