Homosexuality is a topic at the present, sometimes this topic is treated with frivolity.Since the ancient times homosexual people had to repress their feelings to a same sex person because politic conditions did not accept their way of leaving maybe because theese conditions were so severe. Few years ago gay people have began to fight for the same right of the heterosexuals; they want to get married, adopt children and of course they want the same opportunities and profits. In Spain homosexuality was seen like a problem and here the gays find more difficult to obtain the rights and things that they could have in other countries like the United States. These are those who believe that homosexuality is an illness, they think that the homosexuals are different and when they talk about them, they use harmful names. In this essay I intended to give my opinion about gay marriages, if we should or not use that name, if they should adopt children and the homosexuals situation in Spain.

Some people feel that gay people should not get married because they do not find it natural, they think that the homosexuality is psychological illness; maybe because they have alway seen the marriage between a man and a woman or perhaps because they think that the marriage is more than a union maybe they think that is necesary that the marriage have the obligation of having a baby. In this conservative position we can situate the Church. There is an intermediate posture wich thinks that the homosexuals can get married but that kind of union should not be called marriage because that union should be considered a a new term so we must use a new word to designate  it. However, from my point of view, I think that we can not decide from the others life so everybody is allowed to marry the one he or she loves because, in my opinion, the basis of marriage or an other word refered to homosexual marriages is that two persons love each other and that they always stayed together without looking if they are two mens, two womens or a man and a woman.

With regard to the adoption, we must say that here in Spain like in other countries, generally speaking is quite difficult. Personally, I believe that the homosexual couples must have the same right and opportunities to adopt as the ones that have heterosexual couples. Actually there is not any study which proves that the homosexuals are not allowed to bring up a child. There are those who believe that having two fathers or two mothers is not normal, maybe they believe that a child always come from a man and a woman. Because of that they say that this will affect the child when he or she grows. In my view, I think that the adoption should not be denied to couples of the same sex because they have the same capacities to bring up a child and the fact of having two same sex parents won't harm the child if their familiar environment is not affected by harmful gossips.

Some people feel that homosexual people in Spain is treated well, they believe that they have the rights they should have and they feel tolerant to homosexuality. However, from my point of view, I believe that we have to improve their rights because Spain is one of the countries with less tolerance to homosexuality in the world. I think that we should be consciuous and realized that they are not different.

In conclusion, it it clear from my point of view that the homosexuals are not different, they must have the same rights and posibilities because their likes should be considered as the ones which have most of the people. They should can get married and adopt cildren because that is what they want, they want to be happy and we must let them realized their dreams because they are free. It seems to depend of all of us that people tolerate gay people because they are part of the society. I think that if we do not try to miss the old-fashion thought we won't get that the homosexuals be completely recognized in our society.

