Nowadays the consumption of drugs is very common in our society, actually this consumption is not legal. Marijuana is one of the most consumed drugs in our days. This drug comes from the Indian hemp which leaves smoked like the tobacco produce a narcotic effect. The most recognized country where marijuana is legalized is Holland where most of the people who consume it used to go like a kind of [-], maybe because easier to find, you can consume it in a cafe and you can pay less for it. Habitual consuming of this drug are trying that the legislation change their political and legalized the marijuana like it has done with the tobacco and the alcohol. Research suggest that there are two or three different positions concerning the legalisation of marijuana. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the viewpoints dealing with the legalisation of maijuana.

Lot of people are in favour of the legalisation of marijuana. These people find this drug like other legalized subtance like tobacco or alcohol, but that is not true; it is similiar it also creates physic and phycological adiction but it also has more effects  like hallucinations or aggressive behaviour. As a result of theese thoughts, they also believe that if the marijuana is legalized, the pages of our newpapers will not be full of murders, of setting of scores, thefs, violence and of course that our streets will not be full of drug traffikers. It could be said that they thought are extremely in favour but maybe the reality will not be like that; it is true that if we legalized this drug its traffikers will disappear but there are so many drugs in the world and the marijuana is not the only consumed, so drugs traffikers won't disappear. If we only legalized marijuana other substances consumed will exist at the illegal marked so murders of setting of score will not disappear and the pages of our papers will not change.

Between the favour position and the contrary position it is maybe considered one only position, this position is in favour of the terapeutic marijuana. In the ancient times it was used or considered a remedy to all. Actually it is aplied to reduce some of the effects produced by some illness like the AIDS, he asthma, glaucoma, sclerosis, cancer, or depression, so we can say that the terapeutic marijuana helps sick people to reduce their pains and if they have cancer to reduce their nauseas and to stimulate their appetite. Some studies indicate that the terapeutic marijuana has many advantages but it has also some problems like that it can produce hallutinations, it can destimulate the nervous system and that it also could create adiction. Theese problems are some of the reasons why the terapeutic marijuana is used in few countries.

On the other position, other people believes that the marijuana should not be legalized in any case. They think that if we legalized it, it would be harmfull. First of all they think that is we do that some young people will feel atracted to this drug because it is legal and they will not be arrested. An other thought is that thi drug consumption would increase because when a thing is legalized it price should be lower and habitual consumers could spend much money in this substance because they could buy more than previously. There are tose who believes that its effects are not the same as the tobacco and a recent study has demonstrated it; tobacco consumed in excesive quantities has less perjudicial effect and  produces less damages to our body than the marijuana. Maybe the most important opinion is related with the children, if they grow up thinking that this drug used without medical presciption is good, they will not leave to use it and it could cause several accidents. Altough this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness because young people is so conscious and most of them will not feel atracted of marijuana effects, an other weakness is that some of the produced accidents are not caused by marijuana but by alcohol or by high speed.

In conclusion, there are many arguments concerning the legalisaton of marijuana. The arguments in favour are the facts that it would reduce the murders, the thefs, in general it wouldd reduce the deinquency and of course it would reduce the price and ease it consumption. In the middle position we can see that the terapeutic marijuana is useful to several illness, it helps to reduce the pains and to stimulate the appetite but it is not so used because it also has problems like the adiction. On the other hand, legislation could reduce marijuana's price, rise it consumption and damage our body because it hasn't been prescribed. We can deduce that the legislation of marijuana seems to be a bad idea because if we put the pross and cons on a seale it would be inclined to the cons.

