     The adoption of children by gays and lesbians causes a huge conflict in our society. The legalization of marriage between homosexuals in Spain and Britain was the subject of endless controversy. Many people are afraid of the next law which would probably allow gays and lesbians to adopt children. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, homosexual people should be permitted to adopt children and get married between them.
     Lesbians and gay men can be good parents. 	There is no evidence to suggest that lesbian and gay men are unfit to be parents, this is because good parenting is not influenced by sexual orientation. But it is influenced mainly by a parent's ability to create love and affection at home. This ability does not depend on whether a parent is gay or not. First of all, we must think about the fact that reminds us what is better. Is it better to have homosexual parents than being orphan? Is it better to live in a gay environment than living homeless? Does a heterosexual family give more emotional stability?  However, it is said that gay parents cannot provide the stability that married heterosexuals can give. In addition to this, people usually believe that children need a role model, male-female, mother-father. Nevertheless, what happened with a child who lost his mother or his father? Is his future determined for not having one part of the role model, as we see in homosexual families? Also, I must underline that there're many children waiting for adoption, but there are not enough married mothers and fathers who are interested in adoption. These children will never have a stable and loving homes, this is the harsh reality of the matter.
     
     I think children from homosexual families are not disadvantaged because of their parent's sexual orientation. Firstly, all of the available evidences demonstrate that the sexual orientation of parents has no impact on the sexual orientation of their children. As an example, we see the majority of gay people all over the world, where are they coming from? The majority gay people have heterosexual parents. In spite of a study published found that, children raised by homosexual parents were much likely to experiment with themselves. The children were seen as the victims of the attempt to make a cultural statement. Also there was a scandal due to the trauma and the lots of problems that adoption by gays and lesbian could make to them. These are not valid arguments when we see in a recent report that was observed, there was no evidence to say that the children of homosexual parents are less intelligent, suffer more problems, are unhappier, are unhealthier or have lower self-esteem than children of heterosexual. Definitely, home environments provided by gay and lesbian parents are as likely as those provided by heterosexual parents.
     
	As far as I'm concerned, homosexual marriage polemic isn't as complicated as adoption polemic. Most people support homosexual marriage because it exist the universal declaration of human rights. This document gives to every person the same possibilities regardless creed, colour or sex. The main problem is that marriage involves just two persons, and adoption includes the dilemma with the children. Everyone should get married with the one he/she loves. However, when the marriage homosexual law was implemented in Spain, the F.F (Forum of the Family) did a protest march against this law. They defended that since ancient ages, the definition of marriage has been represented by "the union between a man and a woman" and they wanted homosexual people to give other name to their union. Nevertheless, the universal declaration of human rights is still saying that we are equals in every way. So what F.F. was asking for, went against human rights.

	To sum up, from my point of view, gays and lesbians should be allowed to get married and adopt children because we are humans with the same rights. There is no excuse to discriminate someone for being different in a harmless way. Unless we get tolerant minds we will be unable to find the peace in certain aspects of our lives. 


  

