
      Nowadays the consumption of tobacco is very common in our society, although it is a fact that the smoke it causes is harmful to the environment and to the health. The antitabaco law has recently implemented in Spain. This law has brought a huge debate since it was explained to the population. This country has followed other countries which have the same banning, as an example, the city of Manhattan. There are also many nations that are doing the same. Smoking could be banned in every café, restaurant and most pubs in England in four years under plans unveiled by the government. In this essay I will discuss different view points about the tobacco ban in our society.
      
      Most of the businessmen and people in catering business disagree with the new law. They defend that the government has imposed the anti-tobacco prohibition very strictly. The general opinion says that the stores are losing money because of the anti-tobacco law. Research suggests that the cigarettes factories are losing millions of euros. Sales of cigarettes box have decrease in 15 millions less than last year. For this reason, tobacco companies don't support the new law.
 Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses and exaggerated, because tobacco production only represents a little part of the whole economy, so forbidding it, it would not be a risk or significant loss to the economy.
 
      The government argues that it would be beneficial to forbid smoking in work places, because most of the people spend like 25 minutes smoking. Every worker who smokes cost his company 1500€ a year. Studies indicate that it is a risk also for the non-smokers to be near a smoker, the smoke of a cigarette is also carcinogenic. In addition to this parents maintains that it is very dangerous for their children to be near a smoking place, so if they want the best for their children they can't go to any bar or pub, because of the smoke. This argument seems to make sense, because in a free society, men and women ultimately have the right within the law to choose their own lifestyle, even when it may damage their own health, but people do not have the right to damage the health of others, or to impose an intolerable degree of inconvenience or nuisance on others.
      
      The political party "PP" will ask the government to soft the law, because they say that the economy is not prepared for the total prohibition of selling tobacco in small locals. One of the best examples of tolerance is Madrid, which has discussed of letting smoke in big events, such as weddings, communion, baptism, and so on. The politician Esperanza Aguirre proposed change this law. She doesn't want people to go outside (to the street) to smoke a cigarette because some smokers say that they are treated as a drug addicts and they suffer discrimination. The Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) in England supports further restrictions but they vehemently oppose what has become a systematic attempt to demonise smokers. This arguments are rather convincing and seems to be logical, it is the only way to have everyone happy with the anti-tobacco law.

	
      In conclusion I have to say that this new law is the better way to respect each other, besides it has some points that have to be looked through again. Most of people say that they are very satisfied with the law, but also, there are people who don't do their duty, and still smokes, bothering people who don't. Some of the evidences show that smoking is very dangerous for the smoker and also for the people around the smoker, so the new law would be the better way to solve many of the health problems nowadays. The best recommendation would be to respect the law and analyse all the points on it. We must think about our own good.


