
	The traffic jams are one of the main problems in Spain. This has several serious consequences that should be mentioned. First of all is the negative effect in the biggest cities of our country caused by the excessive number of vehicles. The second one is the destruction of highways. Other consequences are congestion in town, noise and pollution among others. In this essay I intend to propose some solutions.
	One of my solutions would be to simply increase the road network. This has been practiced in most major cities abroad, like Houston. Widening roads allows more cars in the highways. Another solution is mass transportation. This includes buses, light rail, trains, and subways. Madrid is able to employ these solutions more effectively than other cities because of population density and other factors. When city has a high-density population, mass transportation becomes more economical and convenient for the commuters. Madrid is a large city, so it is obvious that with a big population density, the citizens have to rely on public transport. Because there is not enough space for that many cars or the roads to place them. However, the government says that most people want to use their cars, so they need to spend most money on improving the road. There are people who think that the government should discourage people from using their cars. For example, people who use the road could pay a bit more. But my opinion of this argument is that it depends on the thought of the great majority of the people.
	I would like to suggest others of some possible solutions to face this problem. Firstly, some streets in the downtown area, in my view, could change to one-way only. In my opinion, this could create a new traffic flow pattern in which drivers would have fewer choices available and would be forced to follow certain mandated paths. For my part, I feel that it is good measure because this would force more drivers to travel in the same direction, which would decrease wait time caused by turns and other driving delays. On the other hand, the widening of the sidewalks might be presented as the Boulevard Movement for the benefit of merchants, shoppers, schoolchildren and others. Could be facilities for other ways of travel, like an easier pedestrians or bicycles travel through freeing space from cars with an additional and    complementary of public transport system.
	Another possible solution to the traffic problem is to worry about pedestrians. In Madrid, like in certain towns, roads that directly lead to schools could be prohibited to cars and thus advantage pedestrians and bicycle rides in the schools immediate vicinity. From my point of view, that type of initiative should be more common. However, this solution might be rather difficult to put into practice, because it would take a long time and it would be very difficult to organize both pedestrians and drivers. But I believe that to help schoolchildren and teachers, it is worth a try. For example, parking there would be discouraged by simple ban or by the implementation of a parking fee.
	To conclude, we have seen several solutions for the consequences of the traffic problem. I personally believe that it is necessary to choose a solution or several solutions, like redesign the road, limit the speed or implementation of parking fee, among others, as I explain above. Perhaps, it is impossible, because of government to put some solutions in practice to solve this problem totally, but we could improve some aspects of our life.

	
      
