Madrid is the cultural center of Spain, with theaters, museums, libraries, and  educational institutions that attract many scholars and visitors.  As a result of this,  Madrid is a city where finding housing can be difficult. During September and October,  the beginning of the academic year, a great demand is placed on housing.  It is also  necessary to add to this the high cost of living in Madrid and rent. In this essay I intend  to argue that it is not a good choice to look for housing in Madrid since Madrid, in my  opinion, is a city with many disadvantages.   First of all, some people who live in Madrid think that housing is not expensive here  and the prices are cheaper than in other cities.  But I disagree with this.  I do not live in  Madrid, so I was looking for housing and the prices were over 290 Euros a month.  It is  clear that Madrid is an expensive city.  I strongly believe that it is difficult to look for  hosing here because of the sky-high prices.  Furthermore, not only are housing prices  expensive, but also restaurants, shops, cinemas, etc.   It seems to me that staying in a city of four million inhabitants' raises some problems,  for example long distances and too much traffic. But it can be argued that it is not a  problem since there are all kinds of public transport to go everywhere and therefore one  could avoid this. However, I think although Madrid has a good subway system, buses,  and commuter railroads that connect the city center with the outer districts, the city  itself is choked with traffic.  Many families would rather take the car than use public  transport and therefore a large number of motor vehicles crowd apartment buildings and  scarce parking makes traffic jams common.   Many people think that it is a good idea to look for accommodation in Madrid since it is  a fabulous city known for its vivid nightlife. You can find hundreds of pubs and bars,  traffic jams at 4 a.m., lights, and shows; There are several areas to go out, each one with  a particular style. Nevertheless, as a result of this, Madrid is a very noisy city.  I  strongly feel that it is difficult to fall asleep.   Finally, I would also maintain that Madrid is dangerous city so it is not advisable to  look for accommodation here. Some people who live in Madrid agree with this, but    they say that Madrid's villages are calm and there is no violence so you can look for  housing in a place very close to Madrid, but not exactly outside Madrid such as Alcalá  de Henares, it is not necessary to live in the Madrid center.  As it is close to Madrid, it is  very easy to go to the centre of the Spanish capital by train or by bus. However, I  believe that the city center and villages are notorious for pickpockets and bag snatchers.   Moreover, if you read the newspaper daily, you will be conscious of the violence in the  streets of Madrid. The newspapers show this every day.   To sum up, we have seen that there are several problems which influence   housing in Madrid. The most important problem appears to be the sky-high   prices, such as high rent and expensive resturants and cinemas.  Another problem seems  to be the noise since Madrid is a city that does not rest.  Lastly, the city can be very  dangerous.  From my point of view, if you are looking for calm and quiet in the Spanish  capital, you will not find it.  
