

Throughout history the ethics and morality of abortion became the subject of intense political debate in many areas of the world. Abortion has been legal in Spain only in certain cases: pregnancy resulting from rape, which must be reported to the authorities prior to abortion; reasonable probability of a malformed foetus, expressed by two specialists of an approved public or private health centre or establishment or to save the mother's life, again in the opinion of two physicians. As a result, the religious and moral implications of this have caused the immediate reaction of many people against this law. In this paper I will try to discuss different viewpoints about abortion.

To begin, there are some arguments in favour of abortion. First, it has been suggested that a woman should have the right to choose whether to have an abortion or not, because she has the right to decide what should happen to her body and nobody, not a man, not a woman, should ever take that choice away from her. Second, many people fell that abortion is a private, personal decision, and if a woman wants to have 
an abortion, she does not kill a human being since it is not even a child it is just a foetus or a group of cells. This argument appears weak because the foetus is not a human being but it is going to be a human being and therefore you kill an innocent life.

Some arguments against abortion in all situations are maintained, mostly by religious people. Catholic people claim that abortion is exactly murder, it is killing a human being, that is wrong, and even though you are raped, killing is killing, and only God has the power to decide who should die. They seem to feel that God has a plan for everyone and if you get raped and pregnant, it is a horrible thing but you should have the baby because the baby is not guilty. Moreover, some people would argue that if you decided to have an abortion, you would steal a life; you would kill a child because the baby's heart stars to beat at 24 days. However, it could be argued that we are human as soon as we are conceived so abortion is not the destruction of a human being.

Finally, most people accept abortion only in certain situations. Some would say that the possibility should be open when a woman is raped since she virtually has no control in that situation; but when she had sex with her boyfriend or her partner and she did not have protection, she should have the baby since she has to deal with the consequences and she has to face her mistake. Another possible argument is that abortion would be appropriate if the mother's life was in danger, abortion in such a situation could be considered an act of self-defence. These arguments seem strong, except perhaps the first, because you can give the baby in adoption and therefore you do not kill a future unborn baby.


To sump up, we can see that there are many arguments both defending 
and condemning abortion. Some of them deal with the freedom of the woman to choose whether to have an abortion or not. The main arguments against abortion are the fact that it is the killing of a child, no matter what the situation is. Other arguments accept abortion only in certain situations such as the pregnancy as a result of rape or to avert a serious risk to the physical or mental health of the pregnant woman. To solve this problem of abortions it is necessary a worthwhile counselling service and extended adoption facilities.
