 
For many centuries marijuana has been used as a drug, yet there are still many mysteries about its health effects on humans. Marijuana is a preparation of the crushed flower or buds of the female hemp plant. Its consumption is very common in our society but it is not legal. The legalisation of marijuana is a topic of heated debated the world over. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about the legalisation of marijuana.

Some arguments in favour of the legalisation of marijuana are maintained by many people. First, millions of Americans have claimed that marijuana alleviates the pain associated with certain illnesses. Not only is it therapeutic in the treatment of a number of serious aliments, but it is also less toxic than other drugs. Second, most people think that it reduces nausea in patients induced by cancer chemotherapy. Next, marijuana improves weight loss caused by AIDS and also helps patients with neurological disorders. Another possible argument in favour of the legalisation of marijuana is that compared with cigarettes and alcohol, the health risks and societal costs associated with even chronic marijuana use are mild, and if  we do not ban those because we deny marijuana to seriously ill people who could get a lot of relief from it. This argument seems quite convincing; but surely, adding marijuana to the list of harmful substances that are legal is not the answer.

There are several arguments against the legalisation of marijuana. An overwhelming number of studies have attempted to explain the physical and psychological effects of marijuana on humans. Physically, marijuana is relatively harmless. Studies have observed interesting results, including that it causes structural changes in the brain, depress male sperm counts and damages the lungs. Various studies have also claimed that marijuana destroys brain cells. Besides, research suggests that marijuana is a physically addictive drug and even after stopping it, people experience different signs and symptoms. Heavy users of this drug need professional treatments to stop it. Marijuana is known a gateway to the use of other drugs. This drug is a dangerous substance because it leads to the use of other drugs like cocaine, LSD or Heroin. It is known an explanation given by the gateway theory that claims that people who have used these common drugs are likely to have used marijuana before. These arguments seem difficult to deny.

Some people agree with the legalisation of marijuana only in certain situations. They think that marijuana should be medically available since it has many health benefits that for example cigarettes do not have, yet cigarettes are legal and marijuana is not. For this reason, marijuana should be available to people in cases where provides the required relief. This argument seems strong; nevertheless marijuana is an addictive drug, and a person that consumes this drug, he/she needs professional treatments to stop it.

In conclusion, we have seen many arguments both defending and condemning the legalisation of marijuana. The main argument in favour is the fact that marijuana provides relief to people who suffer from painful illnesses. Other arguments deal with the harmful effects of marijuana on humans. Another argument accepts the legalisation of marijuana only in specific circumstances. The arguments against its legalisation appear rather persuasive because they are based on studies.
