
In our present society, it seems to be obvious that there are gay people, in other words, same-sex couples. The issue of whether gay people should be allowed to get married and adopt children appears to be a problem in some parts of the world. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, gay marriages should definitely be permitted in all parts of the world and they should be allowed to raise a family.

Firstly, some people would argue that same-sex marriages should be banned because it is immoral, God created man and woman to be united, not man and man or woman and woman and therefore it is a sin of God. But I disagree with this: I think that if you love someone you should be able to get married to that someone even if you are of the same sex and God also said that would forgive us for all our sins so if being gay is a sin will forgive them. Moreover, I strongly feel that if you love someone, it should not matter who or what they are! Who cares if someone is gay, all people should have the right to live a happy life. In my opinion, happiness is the best thing to have and if they are happy who cares.

I personally believe that gay people should be able to do what they want, even though I am not gay, I still think that they should do as they wish, they are not bothering anyone so why should we care? .However, it could be argued that it is just so not nice for a child seeing two people of the same sex getting married because this marriage is unnatural. But in my view, it could not really mess up a child.

The opinion of many people is that a child would be socially impeded by being brought up by two moms or two dads and therefore gay people should not be able to adopt. Furthermore, they tend to believe that a child with gay parents cannot lead a normal happy life. But there is no evidence of this. In addition, it seems to me that gay couples can make as good parents as any straight couples.

Finally, I have heard it argued that children that grow up in same-sex households will grow up to be gay or lesbian through association. On the other hand, I feel that if parents are of the same gender it does not mean that the child will grow up to be a homosexual, since gay people that grow up in usual husband and wife families obviously they did not learn it from association. Should we able to deny a child who needs a loving home one because the parents are of the same sex? , it appears to me that children deserve to have a loving home, and gay couples deserve the right to children.

To conclude, in my view, homosexual marriage should be legalised in all countries, homosexual couples should have the same rights as heterosexual one, including the right to adopt children since it is giving freedom everyone. I tend to believe that if the government of other countries does not agree and he still says that gay people cannot get married, then they will come to Spain or they will go to another country where it is legal.

  
