





           
            Nowadays the anti-tobacco law has created controversy of opinions in Spain. The new law ban to smoke in closed places, but this is only in places less than 100 m. Many people think that this law is ridicolous, because you can smoke in every bar. So where is the different between before and now?. Smoking people and not smoking people has different opinions about this new law. In this essay i will try to argue about the differents arguments that people use concerning the anti-tobacco law.


            Some people argue that anti-tobacco law is a law against smoking people, this use to be thinked by smoking people. First, they argue that they can not smoke in any place, and that they feel drive back. Second, because the tobacco is a legal product and the State is who sell it. These arguments seem quite convincing, nevertheless, it depends in the place where they smoke, inasmuch as, there are spots enables to smoke.



            It could be said that tobacco is a legal option and that then you have the right to smoke where you want and when you want. Also, it could be argue that they smoke because they like it and smoke for a long time ago and they can not leave it. These arguments are strong, but the latter argument is one of the arguments that use not smoking people in favour of anti-tobacco law.



            Although it seems lie there are smoking people that support anti-tobacco law.These people say that before thay have been not smoking people and understand to people that do not like to swallow smoke. This is a good argument in favour of anti-tobaco law. 



           



            
            On the other hand are the not smoking people. In this side there are more people than the other side. First, they argument that smoking has very bad effects on the healthy, specially on the lungs. The argument most strong is that smoking produces cancer, so it is necessary to help people that do not smoke. These arguments are rather persuasives.



           Another point would be that not smoking people would argue that if they have taken the decision of not smoke, they want to be respct and for them breath smoke from cigarettes is an attack to theirs rights. They also argument, that if you want to smoke, it is allright, it is your choice, but do not bother to people that have chosen do not smoke.



            So then, there are many arguments concerning the anti-tobacco law in Spain. The main argument in opposite is that the tobacco is a legal product, so you have the right to smoke where you want. On the other hand, the main argument in favour is that the tobacco is harmful and that they need to feel protect of it. On balance, the anti-tobacco law might be seen as a good idea because has already been succesfully in somes countries of Europe.   

