



  Nowadays there has been an increasing in the violence among children. The reason of this factn it seems to be the bad behaviour of the children and the permissive reactions of some parents and some teachers. Another relevant factor contribuiting to the increase of violence is the actual T.V. Children watch too much T.V, and nowadyas it is not so good. In this essay i wil try to give my own opinion and give some possible solutions about the violence among children.
  
  
  First of all, I believe that  parents play and important educational role. They have to teach to their own sons how to act in every situations and teach them that a good behaviour is important for their development, inasmuch as parents are the main responsible of children's behaviour. However, on the other hand, it could be suggested that there are parents that they do not pay enough attention to their sons, because of they are poor parents. So when the boy has a bad behaviour, parents tend to spank them. So the child learns to use the physical force against others in order to get what he wants.
  
  
  A possible solution to this faulty treatment would be to let social professional intervene. Another figure who has influnce upon children too, seems to be the teacher.
  
  
  Personally speaking, i believe that teacher who are too indulgent towards children may increase pupils' disresppect and thus agressive behaviour. If the teacher do not do anything to solve this situation, the situation is going to be worsen. It could be argued that most teachers make their job, like psychological teachers and they stop the bad behaviour. However, it seems that if the teacher is permissive the children will has bad behaviour.
  
  
  To solve this i would suggest that violent be set apart and taken to special units where pedagogues trained in coping with dangerous pupils could gradually instill in them a sense of discipline. This solution has already been succesfully in several countries.
  
  
  I really think that actual T.V. has an important influence in the bad behaviour af several children. Nowadays children spend a lot of time watching programs on T.V, where we can see that the majority of the programs are not suitable to children, they are suitable to adults. Personally speaking, i think that the guilty of this problem is the goverment, inasmuch as they do not take cards in the subject.
  
  
  A possible solution to this problem, would be create a social programs where children play to football, basketball, etc..., to teach them to create a good atmosphere.
  
  
  
  
  
  To sum up we have seen that children are influence by their parents, teachers and T.V. In addition we have seen some possible solution. The important of this solutions is that our children will not become in futures delinquents.  
