
The consumption of soft drugs, such as marijuana, is something very common in most countries nowadays. But, in the great majority of countries, it is not legal. Of all soft drugs, marijuana is probably the most famous since it is consumed by an important number of people. However, people who smoke marijuana got to do it hiding from the authorities, because if discovered, they face the risk of having to pay high fines. That situation is the cause of many debates about its legalisation, something a lot of people defend and a lot of people are opposed to. In this essay, I am going to show the different arguments used by people when it comes to the legalisation of marijuana.

First of all, some people argue that the consumption of marijuana could be a good treatment for certain diseases. Research shows that it is a beneficial substance for some cases of cancer and other serious diseases, acting as some kind of anesthesia. It is also argued that, with medical prescription, it would be totally legal and safe to trade marijuana for those who would really need it. This could be a rather convincing argument if it was seriously tested with some ill people and succeeded in its purpose.

Also, some people say that there would be less crimes related to marijuana if it was legalised. Nowadays, marijuana moves great amounts of money in the great business of traffic of drugs. Some people claim that, with its legalisation, marijuana would obviously be easier to get and, what's important, legal. That way the traffic of marijuana would end up disappearing and that would do good to society. That seems to be a sensible argument which could be effective, but it is possible that some kind of business would go on even with the legalisation.

On the other hand, it is also pointed out by some people that if marijuana was legal, would do more harm than good. Many people, specially young people, would have access to it and might get addicted, seeing it as something new and tempting. Children would grow up considering it as something normal and habitual. If not legalised, marijuana may not be accesible for them. It is an acceptable argument, but perhaps it is not really true, since nowadays marijuana is rather accesible to anyone via drug dealers.

It is also argued that the free consumption of marijuana would be a strong hit against people's health. All kind of accidents could happen to a person who is under the effects of marijuana and also to those who are near him or her. Car accidents are the most obvious ones, but also work accidents would occur since drugs drastically reduce our reflections, and that could put lives in danger. All of this is probably right, and would be reasonable to have some kind of control for this type of situations in order to prevent accidents.

However, there are also some people who are in favour of the legalisation of marijuana, only as long as it is controlled by the authorities. That people state that it is a good idea if Governments have the control of the selling and the amount, so that it does not become a problem. But one possible problem of this is that a big illegal market would appear and probably take control of the situation.

To sum up, many arguments are used to claim for the legalisation of marijuana. For example, the medical properties of it and the reduction of crime and evil business its legalisation would mean. On the other hand, many people are against legalisation of marijuana with arguments such as the harm it would do to society, specially to young people, or the increase of accidents the use of this drug would suppose. There is also people who are in favour only if certain measures are taken. On balance, the legalisation of marijuana may be a right and beneficial thing to many people, but only if severe measures are taken, in order to protect the consumers and, specially, those who don't consume it.
