

	For hundred of years, homosexuality ha been considered an illness, but in our present society the things are changing. More and more gay people dare to confess their feelings towards a person of the same sex because the mentality of most people has changed and it accepts the masculine and also the feminine homosexuality with more naturalness. However I think that although nowadays it is more accepted, they are still having several important problems when they decide to show their sexual tendency in public and above all with the same sex marriage and the adoption and in this essay I will try to focus on them.

	As same as in other countries exist laws like" death penalty", in our country, until a few time ago, there was a law that was against the same sex marriage, because it was considered unnatural. So it was forbidden that two persons of the same sex do that. However, with the new government this law has changed and now it is starting to allow this kind of marriage. From my point of view, this is a law that should be deals a few years ago, because they are not to blame for feelings something different. It is true that they can provoke a disorganisation in some families where they can't accept this like something natural and they believe that these laws that don't permit these marriages are something wonderful. Nevertheless, personally speaking, this kind of marriage is as normal as another, because they are two persons who are in love with each other, it doesn't matter if they are either men or women, the only thing that is important is that they love each other and for this reason I think it must be legalized.

	The second problem that gay people have is the adoption. As same as marriage, they are still having problems with this topic because the laws are against these couples will have children an the reason is that they think that a couple of men, for example, they can't give to their children a good life, a quite life or things like that. They believe it is impossible that two men will be able to bring up their children. This is a thought that several people have, but not only about men, they have it also with women. The oldest people use to believe that the best way to bring up a child is in an atmosphere of love and sincerity and so on, and they also think that this atmosphere only can be possible in a house where are living a marriage shaped by a man and a woman. My personal opinion of this view is that this thought is totally wrong. A child who is behaviour could be educated in a house who are living two men, two women or a man and a woman. In some many cases, we can attribute the bad behaviour of the child because their parents are gays, but those are limited cases, where the child tries to find the attention of the people. And also there are some people who think that with this kind of marriage the human life is in danger because they cannot have a baby and it is impossible to continue the life's cycle. I would maintain that the adoption should be an equal right for everyone, without differences and distinctions because everybody can "do a good work" with the education of their children if they want to do it.

	Finally, other problems these people suffer are the problems that sill living in our present society, like the discrimination and so on. I tend to believe that this is a big problem that will be switching off with the pass of the time. Some people will continue thinking the same, but it appears to me that this problem will pass early when the world starts to recognize the homosexuality like a normal tendency.

	To sum up, the homosexuality, which is a different way to love someone, is a real love that somebody see like a problem or a madly, and they never accept it like something normal. I think that there are not any solutions for this topic, because the only solution is that the time goes by and the life demonstrate they are conventional people and they can do the same things, But I believe too that the world should change their thoughts and start to think we are all equals.
