     
     
     
     For many years, Spain has been a traditional country of emigration (to the Northern European countries as well as to the Latin American countries during its colonial period). There has been significant change on the migratory tendencies for last 15 years. These days, Spain has become a new pole of attraction. Important changes have taken place in this country at political, social, economic and demographic level. And immigration has not only become an important topic, both as a real fact and as a political issue, but also this matter cuts across all these dimensions of contemporary Spanish society.  Although a recent study indicates that there is nothing to worry about, most Spaniards do not hold the same opinion. This essay considers different points of view of immigration and tries to present a general view of the situation in Spain.
      
     It seems generally agreed among the Spanish society that criminality might be one of the main problems of immigration. According to a survey carried out in 2002, seven Spaniards out of ten believed that the problem of immigration was making criminality worse. Eight out of ten police officers and magistrates questioned (the individuals presumed to be most informed about the real situation) thought that the increase in immigration was linked to the spread of organised crime. The poll showed that 94 percent of those interviewed felt immigrants had aggravated the problem of criminality. At the top of the list of activities in which they felt this to be true was prostitution, followed by drug dealing, micro-criminality, racketeering  and unregistered work. This poll affirms that 'a superficial knowledge of the different components of the immigrant population in Spain leads public opinion to be more sensitive to negative aspects of migration (especially episodes of deviancy and crime) than to 'normal' situations of socio-economic integration'.

     Another matter, which is considered by the Spanish society as very important, is today's job problem. Information based on the latest survey carried out by the CIS indicate that unemployment head the list of Spaniard's major concerns. Many would argue that increasing unemployment is caused by continuous influx of immigrants. One possible argument is that majority of illegal immigrants accept underpaid jobs and as a result of this, there is not effectual job offer for native Spanish workers. However, some people are not absolutely against immigration, but would argue that there are certain risks such as unemployment. Although, they might complain about rising unemployment, they also see the possible immigrants as potential tax payers. Assuming that illegal immigrants had possibility to become legal in Spain, it would solve the problem of illegal employment and its consequences.  
     
     In fact, this is one of the aims of the new immigration law that has been passed by the Spanish government not long ago. The Spanish government modified the immigration laws in Spain and has announced that one of the measures included in the reform is the legalisation of immigrants who are illegally employed, including agricultural workers (mainly seasonal fruit and vegetable pickers) and women working as cleaners or child-carers in many Spanish homes. The Socialist government hopes that by legalising the situation of these workers, they will reduce illegal employment because, for the first time, employers will have to give their employees a legal contract, a legal wage, and will have to pay their seguridad social (national health payments). Nowadays, the Spanish economy is missing out on vast amounts of untapped social security and tax money that immigrants did not pay in the past. Supposing that all workers in Spain have liability to pay taxes, it will bring benefits to the state economy. 

     Finally, immigration does not have only negative consequences to our society but also has some positive consequences, as indicates a recent study done by RAND Europe. Spain faces massive decline in population that could be slowed down by accepting new immigrants. To maintain a constant population size, Spain should accept an average of 170 000 immigrants a year during the next 50 years. However, to maintain a constant working age population, an average of 260 000 immigrants a year would be needed. The question that arises to many experts on this matter is: Is this a solution to declining and ageing populations? This research showed that Spanish government can successfully confront the looming economic threats of ageing populations, still immigration policies intended to reverse this problems have typically a long-term focus and require many years to show results. 

     In conclusion, international migration has always existed. When talking about the current migration process in Spain, the fist notion we take in mind is that this country has become a pole of attraction of migration flow. Over the past two decades, Spain has gone from being a country of emigration to a country of immigration. In spite of this transition, the official data still point out that there are at the moment almost twice as many Spaniards abroad as foreigners living in Spain. Taking this into account, immigration should not be considered as a problem or as a thread.
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
