     
     
    In our present society, the main social issue seems to be the toleration. In other words, conceptions of racism or rights of homosexuals are being discussed in Medias quite often in modern times. In particular, gay marriage has been the main topic in many countries for more than a couple of decades. However, it is a new proposition for Spain. The law about gay marriage has been recently approved by the Spanish government. As a consequence there have been many demonstrations against it since then. The country was divided in two groups. On one side were supporters and on the other side opponents of gay marriage. I assume that the same happened also in other countries where this law has been discussed. I agree with this new law and I am going to write an essay defending gay and lesbian right to marriage as well as right to adoption of children.
    
    To begin with this matter, I would like to make clear why I actually support the idea of gay marriage. One of the main reasons is that thanks to my parents I was brought up in an open-minded atmosphere. Since I was a child I have been in contact with my parents friends (gay couple), who have been always treated by my family as any other heterosexual couple. Another reason would be that I lived in Sydney three years. Sydney is generally known as the best place for gay people throughout Australia. While sharing a house with many kinds of people of different nationalities, religions and sexual orientations, I suppose, I became more tolerant to diverse points of view and attitudes of other people. I think this opened my mind and that is why I am in favour of gay people getting married. 
    
    Some conservative and religious leaders would argue that gay people can never form a family. Their argument would be that 'normal' family consists of a woman and a man. So that two people of the same sex living together is something unnatural and strange.  In my opinion, family consists in a couple of people (group of people) caring for each other and who are able to create a loving and nurturing home for themselves and their children. Are not gay people capable of all this? Strange as it may seems to some people, a homosexual is a human being able to manage with daily routines as well as any other person with different sexual orientation. So, why a gay couple cannot form a family and adopt children?  
    
    Adoption of children is another point of this issue that is worth mentioning. It is rather doubtful if gay people should be allowed to adopt children or not. One possible question, which comes along to many of us, is whether children of gay parents are more likely to turn out gay themselves. Even if they were prone to turn out gay more than children of heterosexual parents, would that be a problem? There have been done several researches on this matter, but nobody has approved this theory.
    
     The researches have been carried out in USA for last thirty years. The scientists deal with children from pupil age to middle age, still they have not found any abnormality. Other investigations have been done in countries like Canada, Australia, Switzerland or UK, but they produced exactly the same results as the ones in USA. Although none of the evidence shows any possible connection between sexual orientation of gay parents and their adopted children, many people believe in the contrary.
    
    Some of the people who do not encourage the idea of adoption of children by gay parents also believe that growing up in a gay family may have negative effect on mental condition of a child. One of their main arguments is that this child could be teased by other kids at school about having gay parents. In fact, children get teased about anything and everything, everyday. If the reason, why gay people should not be allowed to adopt children, is potential bullying, should not be also forbidden to fatty or poor parents to have children? Nobody ever asks this question, because it seems to all of us ridiculous, doesn't it? 
    
    In summary, I think gay people should be allowed to get married and adopt children. Those children will most likely turn out better people than most children in today society, as they will be more accepting to different cultures and opinions. And I suppose this is the main idea of toleration. We, as a society, have the power to change our attitudes towards the unknown and on account of this come to an understanding. I am sure all this will take time, maybe many generations. But isn't it worth trying? 
