

     The Spanish government has decided to create a low which do not allow people smoking in public spaces, as coffees, restaurants, and so on. It has been a very controversial low, because the Spanish population has been divided in to two mains groups. The first one think that this resource was necessary for the common health, in other words, for people who do not smoke, and those who smoke but are going to smoke "less" because of the low. The second one, argue that this low attack the smokers' rights. On that essay I am going to explain my own point of view about the anti-tobacco low.
     That low, which has been put on circulation the first of January of that year (2006), has supposed, in my point of view, a great advanced in the Spanish society, who has reach the European ideal of commons smoke free spaces, which allows people to breath pure air in their lives, no matter in which moment (like working, having a coffee, or just having fun in a closed place). In the other hand, we can find another different opinion, which argue that this low attack the smokers' rights, because they can not have a cigarette wherever or whenever they want, if they do, they will have to pay a task. I strongly believe that this low do not attack the smoker' rights, this low just try to save the no smokers' rights, which have been always forgotten by those who smoke, having no care about the people around them.
     I feel that, also this low has a didactic side which tries to teach the society, but in special young people, to respect the human health. I have said "in special, young people" because this low forbid to smoke in places like bares, and discos, and so on; I mean places were young people use to go for have fun, and those are spaces in where cigarettes are most consumed by that group of our society. In general, smokers do not agree with that point. They think that this low does not teach our society, even more this low just tyrannizes it, making it less tolerant, and also making the smokers feel as if they were criminals, because they are being "persecuted" (if they broke the terms of the low), not just from police, who can put them a task (or maybe more), even more from citizens, and so on. I would argue that in facts, this low make us more tolerant, in special smokers, because they do not think about people's health around them who do not smoke. Smoking is a habit which kills, and when people smoke in common places they forgot about that. Tobacco is the second reason of dieing in our society, (the first is traffics accidents).
     I must say that this low does not forbid smoking in all the common places, there are some restaurants and so on, which have decided to allow smoking, or in where they have fitted out some smoking area apart from free smoke area. In the other side, some people think that this low is the responsible of a lot of economic lost on the gastronomy sector, the tobacco traders, and so on. This economic lost has made the tobacco companies to descend their prices and get the opposite effect wanted by the government, to reduce the quantity of tobacco sold. That descends on the price make it more accessible to young people, and reach the opposite effect wanted.
I strongly feel that this effect, which makes tobacco more accessible to young people, is going to be alleviated by the government on putting a task over the tobacco's price. In other side, I think that the gastronomy sector's problems (and so on) are going to be resolved with time; this low has not much time come into force.

	In conclusions, I tend to believe that this low is being a great measuring to get a middle point between smokers and no smokers. Despite of the currently problems, with some time, Spanish society will become accustomed of that new low, which in Europe has been a measuring taken a long time ago, and the most important thing, it works.

