
	
	Nowadays it seems that young people have tested, almost once in their lives marijuana. That fact worries our society, and consequently our politicians. At the moment marijuana is illegal, except in some cases like medicals ones, in what marijuana is used for decrease the pain on a patient with cancer, and so on. In this essay I will tray to explain the different points of view which could be found in our society.
	In one side of our society, we can find those people who argue that marijuana should not be considered as a drug, because it is as addictive as tobacco or alcohol. Into the drugs world, marijuana is a soft one, as alcohol, and tobacco (as I have already said). One reason given by this group is that alcohol, and especially tobacco, are substances that kill a lot of people each year, and in spite of this fact, they are legal. That is a fact that anyone could check on the internet, news papers, and in the most important place, our normal life. That side of the society also thinks that marijuana is less dangerous for our organism than tobacco or alcohol. It is scientifically tested that marijuana hurt less our lungs than tobacco. Another reason given for legalize marijuana is that, in many cases, that drug gives some kind of inspiration to whom smokes it, and helps to see the life from a relaxed point of view, it is to say that marijuana is a relaxing which helps to liberate the stress in our organism. Also it is reasonable to think that for ill people, in special people with cancer, that substance helps to eliminate during a short time the pain caused by this illness. So that this point of view remark that marijuana could be as addictive as alcohol or tobacco are, but also has more good effects than the other two substances mentioned.
	On the other hand we can find those people from our society who feel that marijuana is a dangerous drug because is, in most cases, the beginning of the consume of another kinds of drugs more dangerous and addictives, like cocaine, and so on. Other main reason exposed by that side is that marijuana caused a strong damage to our brain, and the most important thing, that damage is not always presented at the time on when the drug is consumed (the period of time in what the person took it), in most cases the damage on the brain appears after long time passed since when the drug was consumed. That opinion would argue that marijuana is far more addictive than tobacco, and more expensive than the last one. In our society, young people represent the main group addicted to marijuana and that kind of drugs (cannabis, and so on). Although, young people is the group with less economic possibilities, so, that low economic level makes young people steal money to their parents, or reach it by becoming in drug-pushers. So, this side explains that marijuana, being a soft drug, could make a lot of damage, not only to our body, also to our society.
	We can find a third point of view about that controversial issue. That people feel that marijuana should be legalized, but no for a normal use, in other words, just for extremes cases, like using it as a treatment for illness like cancer, and so on. It has been demonstrated by scientific researches that marijuana helps to make easier the life of a person who has cancer. Also it could be argued that in the rest of the cases, like use it for inspire and so on, marijuana must still be illegal, because there are several naturals ways to reach that states  (which are less risky for us, like sleep, have sex, and so on). That side of the society tries to mean that marijuana could be good just for some particular cases, for the rest cases marijuana is not necessary for have a full life.  
	Analysing this social issue: first, there is people who think that marijuana should be legal because is as dangerous or less than other legal soft drugs like alcohol and so on. Second, there are people who are absolutely against the marijuana legalisation because they think that marijuana is a very dangerous drug. Third, people who find that marijuana should be legalized for some specific cases, like for some kinds of illness.
	In conclusions, marijuana is a soft drug, but finally a drug, so it has negative effects on our organism. The legalisation of marijuana is an issue which must be taken seriously, and the Spanish government should find a solution which allows the use of this drug just for those who really need it.
