     										 


This is a very important topic. At present it is a very discussed topic that has created controversy in and out of Spain, because of government influence and the century in which we live, since apart from the new laws, the acceptance of homosexuality has increased. 

If we went back in time, we would see that homosexuality has always existed. There were famous musicians, writers, singers... that were gay. Although they did not declare it because being like that could be a serious problem. It was considered as a god's punishment, or as an illness. 

Step by step it has been a less taboo topic for society.  Only a few years ago, homosexual people struggled for different reasons: 
- The acceptance of this sexual orientation. "Gay Pride Day" was founded. It started in 1969 in Stonewall, New York. But after that, it started to be famous the "Gay Power" idea. The violence is the main characteristic. We see gay people as strong people. In Spain, it has been celebrated since 1977, every 28 of June. 97.000 people witnessed the last event. "We represent the real Spain. We want to put up a wall against prejudices. It is a happiness manifestation"
- The struggle for the same rights as heterosexual people. The opportunity of a marriage. It is an idea that has always been there but it has never been posed. However, now it is different, it was been suggested and it was been accepted. That made a lot of polemics in Spanish people. That is why we have very different points of view. 
- The children adoption. To start a family. 

There are two big blocs in this idea of homosexual marriage. First, gay people. They want to have a union with their couple and they think it is ridiculous that it should be prohibited, for the reason that the other person is of the same sex as you. 
In the other side, people who refuse, above all, this homosexual marriage. It must be mentioned, for example"Foro de la Familia". Its manifestation took place the last 18 of June, in which they showed their adversity to this topic. They hang over article 32 of Spanish Constitution, which says that marriage is an institution limited to men and women. The representative of "Foro de la Familia" says that heterosexuality is the element that identifies the marriage institution. They demand rights like: the marriage is an expression of legal equality. 

Another different topic is if they should be allowed to adopt children. That is also an important thing in our days, and there is a very polemical subject. There are also 2 big contradictory points of view. "Foro de la Familia" refuses that a homosexual couplet could adopt a child. They see gay people as ill people, so with this illness it is impossible to be responsible for these innocent babies. This group also say no because a baby is the result of men and women, so it could be something very superficial if they are brought up by 2 man or 2 woman. A part from that, the child could suffer at school, and he could have serious problems in his childhood. Because having 2 fathers or 2 mothers, they say, it could be a reason of mockery and social alienation. 

On the other hand, those who want this adoption of children. They say that the child could feel that at school if he has 2 fathers or 2 mothers, if his mother is single, if he is orphan, if he is fat, if he has very big feet or if he is black. They see this idea as stupid because if they want to adopt children is because they feel that they are able to do it like everyone, and that they could love the baby like an heterosexual couple. 

In short, we see that there are 2 big groups, and is going to be very difficult to come to an agreement. There are different points of view, and I think that people who say that homosexuality is an illness need more information about them.


