
Nowadays the legalisation of Marijuana is a controversial problem in Europe. Spain is one of the countries which the Marijuana it is not legalised, althought for example in Holand it was legalised in 1999. In this essay I am going to present the differents perpectives concerning the legalisation of Marijuana.

To begin with, there are some people who are for the legalisation of Marijuana due to: in one hand it would be the end of the drug trafficking because if the Marijuana were legalised, the drug dealer wouldn't necesary, just because everyone who want to consume it would go to the stores where the Marijuana is sold; another point is that the State would have more contribution due to the taxes added on it; next, men are free to chose and to do what they want( except for under-18s in Spain); also there would be less people consuming it because they would know better what they are doing; and finally, Marijuana would be better due to the quality control, so maybe it wouldn't be so bad for health.

Some other people are against it, so they would argue that: first of all, the legalisation of Marijuana wouldn't stop with the drug trafficking. The drug dealer would find some other way to make "easy money"; the idea of the drug dealer becoming honest and respectful with laws is a utopia; second, there is no doubt that the State would raise taxes, but this taxes are at society¡s costs weel-being, so the State should find another way to put taxes to those who evade them; and to conclude, it is understable that men are free, so the State don't sanction them, but it looks after the personal integrity, and to consume drugs it is not isolated. This is refering to that when you are consuming drugs you are not taking only your own freedom, you are aslo involucrating the freedom of some other people.

The general view is that the legalisation of Marijuana deppends on the circumstances: first, the consume of Marijuana just like medical use. There are some illness which the person who have them is suffering a lot of pain, so in this circumstances doctors recomends to smoke Marijuana with the purpose not to feeling so much pain. Second, the legalisation of Marijuana for the individual consume. The State legalize the quantity and then, to pass the quantity establised by the State would be illegal. In Spain the punishment to those who break the law is a fine of 300 euros minimum and a year of prision( without staying at).

The argument that legalize the consume of Marijuana as a medical use may appeal to many people because there are lots of very bad illness which cause a lot of pain, and some medicines are not convenient to this kind of illness. Some studies indicate that when you are ill the mood has a very hight influence on the development of the illness, it means, if you are happy and believing that you are going to save you, you will have more posibilitys to beat it, and the effects of the Marijuana helps to maintain you in a better mood. This point is reasonable because it is normal to be depressed when you know you have a bad illness which causes you a lot of pain.
So then, this essay has considered thet there are differents viewpoints of the legalisation of the Marijuana: first, some people who are for the legalisation of it which consider that Marijuana would be the solution to some problems like drug trafficking, fines, individual freedom...Second, some others are against the last arguments, and to conclude, others who acept it just in determinated circumstances, for example, medical use. Considering all this points, it might be reasonable for people not to let them chose and to use it just like a necesity use, and not to let them sell it.
