Nowadays, in Spain it has been estabilized a law which allow homosexual to get married, however adoption is a controversial problem. A minority think that children adopted by homosexual are not  going to have a normal infance, but in other contries of Europe scientist think that to be adopted by homosexual isn't have influence on the development of the child.

It seems to me that gay people must be treated like every single person, so they ought to have the same rights, and it includes: marriage and the posibility to adopt children.

In one hand, nobody is within his right to tell somebody that he can't do something just because of his sexual orientation. From my point of view the individual preferences are privates, so nobody can say how you have to live your life. Homosexual are persons like you and me and they just want to live their life of the happier way, like verybody. On the other hand it is understable that some years ago most of the people saw the homosexuality like something strange, and nowadays, still some people are afraid of it. Anyway, everybody is free to chose how to live his life, and our labour is to get use of it, and of course repect them.

From my part I belive that everyone has the right to chose how to share his life and with who, so I ask to myself, why not?. When a man get married with a women nobody tell them how to do it, but it is different when a man want to get married with another man. Some people think that the homosexual people are against the natural being of the man, and fot that they cannot form a normal family. Most of them are very religious persons who have a very closed mind, and due to the religion this kind of prejudices were created. Since the begining of catolic religion, the catholic church have had a lot of prejudices againts new things and events, for example in the middle age the catholic kings created the tribunal of the Inquisition which persecuted to those people who were called "heretic"( basicly they were people with a different religion, jewish and moslems), people with differents customs and others sexual inclinations. Allready in our present society althought the Catholic church has not a politic power to create laws, some christian people are still very conservative and they do not agree with changes in the traditional believes.

As well as claiming the right to get married,they also want the posibility to adopt children. A lot of people, however, are against this posibility because they think that a children adopted by homosexual is not going to developt himself in the society like the others children do. Since the child is growing up they are thought to have a maternal figure and a paternal figure, and parents also don't make their children understand  that there are other options.From my pont of view this is relative: if we are convinced that a child adopted by homosexual is not normal, he will never develop himself of a normal way, but if we see, and we teach our children,to see this like an oportunity to those children who have not a family, everybody will forget his prejudices, and then they will begin to understand what homosexual people is doing for them. The actual society must be educated.

To sum up, I tend to believe that someday people will understand that everybody have the same rights, every single person is different from the other , that we need to see beyond our prejudices, to understand some others ways of living the life, and to realize that the people who want to adopt a child only want to help them and to form a family. From my point of view I do not think that it is fair not to leave them to  adopt children, but I understand that we are living in a society with a lot of prejuidices, and maybe we are not prepared to accept it, but I am sure that little by little we will be using to see a different family to the traditional one.

