



    In our present society, many deaths are due to car accidents which some times are caused by people who have drunk before getting in a car. Driving drunk is very dangerous, this is the reason why there are some different activities to avoid these deaths. It is considered that drivers can not drive when they have more of 0,5 g/l of alcohol in the blood or if the drivers are learner, they can not with more of  0,3 g/l . This is forbidden because if they exceed these limits , they are not conscious about what they do. In this essay I intent to argue some of the problems related to drinking alcohol if you drive and the consequences which produces, in my view this should be more inspected and the punishment ought be harder.

Nowadays some young people to enjoy themself need drink alcohol because they believe that this is the way to flirt easily, dance , forget problems or cheer. The fact is that they have drunk, and then they drive a car. I think that is risky, because not only do you damage yourself, but also people who are by road. I believe that people who do it, are unresponsible and criminals since they can lose one's life and furthermore they can take somebody's life. After all, my own opinion is that if the drunk drivers die, it is their blame,the problem is that they can kill other people who have not fault, they are innocent, and it will be a remorse for the drunk drivers during their whole life. Some people think that if they drink one or two beers, it is not dangerous,because they think that with 0,5 g/l of alcohol in the blood, they can drive without causing damages. Although one or two beers have little alcohol, driving so could be dangerous, because each person is affected different way. It depends on age, weight, for example the thin people are more afected than fat people. Moreover when people drink some alcohol, their behaviour is different in an agressive way or more sociable way, also  if they are drunk, they can not have the prope reflectations.

Lorry and taxi drivers explain us that they are driving every day, when they have lunch, they want to have a glass of wine or alcoholic drink. They argue that most workers drink a beer or a glass of wine when they have lunch, so they believe that is unfair that another worker can do it and they can not. However, I am of the opinion  that none worker should drink alcohol while they are working or when they have to work after having lunch. Anyway it appears to me that driving is more serious.I want to say that some jobs need not pay attention and it does not matter that you drink alcohol, but driving is different because you can not mislead,and you must be concentrated at every time. Furthermore people who drive public transport or lorries, they have to pay attention to the passengers and the load which can fall down and cause damages. I tend to believe that idea of drinking alcohol to clear the mind is confused, because the alcohol makes sleep,and it produces that we have confused ideas, like security, it means that when we are drunk we are sure about distances, capacity which are false.

Personally speaking I feel that driving drunk can make life difficult. If you have an accident when you are drunk, although you have a comprehensive car insurance, the insurance company does not pay anything so that you will have to pay damages: personals , objects and punishments.On the other hand it could be argued that damages should be paid by comprehensive car insurance, because you are paying every year just 

in case you have an accident that you do not have to pay anything. Nevertheless, I would suggest that comprehensive car insurance pay damages because you have an accident unintentionally, but when you are drunk if you drive you are breaking the law, becuase driving drunk is forbidden. Furthermore there a lot of possibilities of having an accident if you drive drunk so the insurance company is not responsible, because paying damages are done by drunk person, it could be very expensive, since when a person is drunk, he lose control of one's faculties, so he can knock over somebody.

 So then,in  this essay I  have presented the main consequences of driving drunk, the risks and damages personals or objects which produces. Having described the problems, my own opinion is that drivers should be more responsible and they ought to become aware about problems which give driving when they are not quialified to do. However, I believe that it  is necessary to find some solutions, I think that will be a good idea failing driving licence and some years imprisonment, since driving drunk is a crime.
