
           In modern times, the piracy is a topic very popular. Piracy can be defined as the illegal copying of things such as video tapes,music or computer programms. The situation about piracy has recently got worse in Spain owing to lossing money. However, although there are many types of piracy, this essay will only consider the music piracy because it is calculated that lossing of money about this topic could be millions and millions. In this essay I will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of music piracy.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of music piracy. Some people might claim that the price is one of the reason, since pirating a compact disc is cheaper than buying it. It is apparently true that buying a compact disc in a shop could cost 20 euros and if you buy one pirated, it will cost 3 euros or it will be free if you download from the internet. Another possible argument is that buying a disc is not worth when there are only two songs,which you like, because you are not going to listen the others so it is better to record your favourite songs. Robbie Williams who is a famous singer maintains that music piracy is a great idea, moreover he agree with this point. The argument that letting live the poor people or defenceless may appeal to many people, because they have spent one's life working barely, now they have the opportunity of earning money easily, because it is believed that they can make a lot of money out of that business. Moreover people who can not record compact discs, they can buy them very cheap.  These argument in favour of music piracy seem to make sense, because the salary does not increase, and the music is very expensive since with this price you can do another thing. The last point about the poor people is rather convincing, although there are different ways to earn money.

Some Arguments against the music piracy are maintained mostly  by some people who love listening to music, singers. The general opinion of people who are against music piracy is because of this finishs music off, so the culture, and habits relationed with the music will also finish. Another consequence is that the singers are not motivated because they consider that they are not corresponded by the public, so the music makes worse, which involves that quality is worse. Moreover they do not create new songs because they do not earn enough money. It is widely accepted that music piracy damages the society, since it is an underground movement, people , who do it, are illegal, so they do not pay rights or taxes. It hinders the living together because a country without taxes can not be maintained since social security, pensions are paid with the taxes which people pay when they buy something original. Moreover the big companies which have a lot of sources to work, record or manufacturate compact discs, or companies which are dedicated music, lost income owing to pirating. This could be considered a realistic perspective, since when we buy a piracy compact discs, there are a lot of losses which then we have to pay.

There are other arguments regarding music piracy that there are middle-points. Shopkeepers lower the price of the music, they give something , or the compac discs are sold at half price. Some researchers say that it is a good solution to increase the sale. So people who hate buying piracy music or people who can not buy it because it was expensive , with this way they can do it. Thanks to music piracy some producer of music catch on importance of this and the consequences which the price has. Moreover there are more competition among the singers since they have to strive to like the public and so they will prefer buying an original compact disc to a pirated one. It appears to be reasonable because the singers and producers want to sell a lot of compact discs so they are preparated to work harder and negociate.


So then, this essay has considered many arguments either defending or condemning the music piracy , these points have been argued and there are shown the main consequences. Considering all these points, it migh be reasonable for music company to bear in mind reasons why people buy music piracy and try to solve it. One possible solution might be to increase the price, so this would not  be a problem.




	
