
	In our present society, some people use the public transport. Some of them have to move to work or to study. Although there are some people who have to move to far away have to do it by plane but mainly they go by road transport. A recent study indicates that millions of people travel in public transport everyday to move by the city. Little by little, the public transport is getting better. They usually use buses, trains or underground. A recently research suggests that in big cities like Madrid, the most important transport is the underground which is the fastest. The first line in the underground was inaugurated in 17th October 1919 by the King Alfonso XIII. This line has 3, 48 kilometres long. According to the last study, the underground is the most valuable medium of transport in Madrid. Nowadays, there are twelve lines in underground. In places where there is not underground, some people travel by bus, train or taxi. In this essay I will discuss about the advantages and disadvantages of public transport in the big cities, where there are more population and for that reason they are more used.

	 To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of public transport. Some people argue that there will be less pollution (atmospheric and noise pollution) if they use more public transport since there will not be a lot of contamination because cars raise it. So they argue that the pollution has given many consequences such as the health and the quality of life are worse. Another advantage is the price because public transport is cheaper than using your own car. For example the single ticket of underground is  1,10 € in Madrid but is cheaper if you buy a transport payment that costs 33,60€; with it you can travel in the bus, train or underground when you want to. This price depends on the zones which are nine in Madrid. The payment is a good idea, furthermore it is more comfortable and cheaper because you buy it once a month and then you do not have to pay it anymore. Some people claim that using a public transport is a good reason because some of them use car and it produces a lot of traffic jam, so people who travel by train or underground they do not suffer stream. In addition, if you travel in public transport you do not need to worry about the necessities of your own car, like petrol, brakes, wheels or revision. Moreover if you use public transport you will not have problems to park because when you arrive at the place that you want, you do not have to take care of the transport until you want to come back since many times you have to park your car in a display car park, although some times you do not find any place to, and then you have to doubled-park, what is forbidden and you can be fined. Furthermore, when you travel in public transport you do not have to pay attention to the road, also you can study, read a book, sleep or relax yourself.

	Some arguments against the public transport are maintained mostly by some people who love driving or people who work far. The general opinion of people who are against public transport is because of strikes. Drivers of public transport come out on strike, these reasons to go on strikes are different, for example the main reason could be the security drivers or because there are driving a lot of hours without having rest. The consequences of strikes are suffered by passengers because they do not arrive on time to their work or they can not go to study much time because of the wagons or the buses are full. It is possible to argue that people hate using public transport because they have to wait; they refer to buses because the trains are faster and they passed each five or ten minutes. Another disadvantage is that you sometimes have to change the line. This is a problem in winter when it is raining since you are in the bus or in the train and it is hot because there are many people in rush hours and if you have to change line you have to go out and you can have a cold. Another disadvantage is discomfort, it could be considered as uncomfortable because many times you can not sit down and you have to standing until you get on. Another point could be that you have to listen to the conversation or listen to the music of a person who is near of you. This argument seems to make sense because it is annoying and they can not concentrate in your own.

	There are other arguments regarding public transport that there are middle-points. Using public transport when you go out with your friends could be rather convincing because if you use the public transport you can drink and you need not worry about the car. The problem is that you can not go at your home when you want because you have to wait to the bus or train. Moreover you have to work from afar. Another reason is that using public transport at night can be dangerous because a few people take them and you are sometimes alone in a wagon, so a thief can take the same wagon and he can steal you because there is not surveillance in every wagon. Although it is also dangerous driving you own car at night by discos or bars because some people are drunk and they do not respect the laws. On the one hand, you can have independence with your own car because you can go where you want and when you want to do it and in the other hand you do not have independence because you can go where the buses or trains. Although you can go with all your friends together in public transport and have a good time.

	In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments either defending or condemning the public transport. Some of them deal with the big places where there are many people who nee use public transport to move to the city. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable that people responsible of public transport have to bear in mind disadvantages about it trying to solve them. One possible solution might be to pass buses frequently, so some people would be more comfortable because they could sit down and they could not have wait for so long.
