


     Nowadays anti-smoking law is a very important topic. This law, which consist on 
forbidding all smoking in public places, was passed last 1st January.  Futhemore in 
accordance with the law currently in force the smoker can't smoke when they are 
working. Also some bars and pubs aren't allowed to smoke inside , bars where the 
smoker can smoke inside,these have to enable different places, non-smoking area and 
smoking area,so non-smoker people aren't bothered with the smoke.
In this paper I intent to argue that the smoker should stop smoking, because it is 
dangerous, furthemore I try to explain the main consequences of smoking.

Firstly, I agree with this law, because I consider that smoking is unhealthy.
A recent study indicates that 16 per cent of death in people who are more 35 years old 
are owing to smoking. Furthemore smoking is very dangerous because when you smoke 
a cigarette, this contains more than 4000 chemical products, which are poisonous.
Moreover, I think that when a smoker smokes not only does he harms himself, but also 
he can harm people who are near of him, the second-hand smoke. In my opinion these 
smokers ought to respect them, because secondary smokers don't want to be harmed. 
Some smokers disagree in this argument because they think that there are many death 
which are owing to accident cars, so they argument that driving should be forbidden.
In my personal opinion, although there are many death because of accident cars, driving 
can't be forbidden because there are some people who need the car to work. Furthemore 
the main causes of death in the accident cars are because of the driver drive drunk or 
because they drive too fast which are forbidden. Another reason is being careless that is 
sometimes when a smoker lights a cigarette,or when  he looks for a lighter.

Secondary, I strongly believe with the law, when it says that it's forbidden  to smoke in 
the work. For my part, I feel that when people are working, they have to be concentrated
 on their jobs, so if they smoke they can disconcentrate. In addition, my own view, they 
can't smoke because they waste of time. Another point is that smoking in some jobs can 
be dangerous, for example in jobs where there are papers that can be burnt or inflamable 
products. Futhermore I believe that the smoker when they are smoking they can cause 
troubles to companions because some people don't loathe smoky places.
On the other hand it could be argued that the smoker who are nervous they can calm 
down if they smoke.Furthemore some smokers can't work if they don't smoke, so some 
smokers explain us that the tobacco helps them to be inspired. Also journalist for 
example argue that they work alone, and they don't inconvenience anybody.
Nevertheless, I would suggest that research suggest that people who think that if they 
smoke a cigarette they'll relax. They are wrong, so they need smoke because they are 
used to smoking when they are irritated or when they have problems. It's an habit. 
Furthemore I believe that although some smokers need to smoke to be insired, all 
workers have to have the same rights and the same obligations,if not, it would be unfair.

Some people feel that this law is excessive, some of them can't understand that they 
can't smoke in pubs, bars, because they consider that when they have a free time, they 
should do what they want to do. Moreover the smoker think that there are other 
solutions to decrease death owing to smoking, increase prices. Another point that they 
argue is that in our present society there are many problems, they believe that these 
problems are more important than smoking,so the goverment should solve them.
However, in my opinion this is a good law. I know that in our society there are many 
problems which are importants but also they are difficult to solve. So I believe that 
reduce number of dealth owing to smoking is easy. Also I consider that the most 
important problem is the health and if smokers can't smoke when they are working or 
when they are shopping, they have less time to smoke so they will stop smoking little by 
little. I think that is the best solution because if the tobacco raise, the rich will carry on 
smoking. In addition, I believe that enjoying of your free time is important what you but 
you should respect your health and you ought to consider what is good for you.

So then this essay has considered my own opinion about anti-smoking law, so I have 
argued the reason why the smoker should stop smoking, problems of smoking, place 
where aren't allowed to smoke, main consequences of smoking. Basically, it would 
seem to be a good idea this law because  the dealth owing to this topic will dissapear .
Having described the problems of smoking, my own opinion is that this law is  the best 
solution to reduce the problem of smoking. However, I think that smokers who want to 
stop smoking should be helped by profesionals, and nowadays there are assistances.


