
Recently the Spanish Parliament, has approved a new law based on the assisted reproduction. This law, consists on the families' possibility to choose healthy embryos, by means of  a genetic selection process,to use the umbilical cells for the cure of a sick brother. Thank's that technique, the families with sick sons, could conceive a healthy son to be used as a donor to his or her brother. This technique, was used some years ago in other countries, as Chicago; but in Spain, it was forbidden hitherto.It has produced various opinions of families and doctors, and also of Church. In this essay, I will express my personal opinion about this technique and its passing.

I think that the passing of that law, means a science advance. The possibility to conceive a healthy son, which umbilical cord's cells would be the cure for the other son, is a hope to the families, and in fact something incredible.Some people think that this technique is against nature, they would argue that it is not natural to manipulate human embryos beacause the nature do its job (what it is called natural selection), and we would 
intercede on that natural process.Whether or not we intercede in that process, it is obvious that science has made progress for human survival, and this technique is intended only in special cases, so I think that the people who don't are for science progress, have never been in an extreme situation of illness.

It is obvious that the passing of laws like this cause different points of view. For example, religious people, many times, have been against many medical techniques,I think that if we had allow some religious actions as crusades or witch hunt, or furthermore, its intention to ban the ancient corpse's dissection, nowadays we wouldn't know nothing about human body. The spokesman of the spanish family group thinks, that the fact of  killing embryos is illegitimate.They admit, however,that this technique can save lifes, but the end does not justifies the means. I agree with that point of  view, in the sense that it could be used in an illegal way, or used by bad hands, but, anyhow, it is other kind of medicine, and it is factually true that it can save lifes.

Talking about the families that have a sick son, it is clear that any person may put his or herself in that families place, to understand that they could do anything to save a son.But some people think, that this technique will create a kind of "medicine child", or "object children".They would be loved only because their umbilical cord contains compatible cells to his or her ill brother.I think that this is a very extreme point of view. The "perfect" son will be a son in fact, and his or her parents would love them equally. 

To sum up,I have said diverse opinions against that technique, and I think that the passing of that law, is a great advance to the science, and medical science, and it is impressive that we can cure some illnesses.However I think that it is necessary to stablish some clearly defined limits to use that technique to avoid a bad use of it. 
	


                                                                                                    
