
The parking meters, were instaled some years ago in Madrid, to control parking places. This is a new system, that consists of the parking places are painted green or blue, depending on its price. The green places, are cheaper than blue ones. The person who parks one's car in these places, has to take a ticket of the parking meter, and could have the car parked, for only two or four hours. This is a new measure aimed at reducing the excesive inlfux of cars. It has been taken by the actual mayor in Madrid,Gallardon,and it is being rejected by many people. In this essay, I will write my opinion about this theme.

The establishment of parking meters in some areas of Madrid, has produced many complaints, especially in residential areas. From my point of view, parking meters should be installed only in comercial areas, where people goes only for a short period of time, and with lower prices, to encourage the use of public transport. However  the town council has puted parking meters on residential areas, where there is about one thousand houses. Gallardon is sure that this will be beneficial to us. He also says that in residential areas, people can take a ticket for all the year, and will not have to take one every four hours. I really think that it is an absurd and a ridiculous measure, that obstructs cars' parking, and moreover, there is not places for all vehicles in residential areas, because we are lots of  families.

There are so many dealers and shopkeepers, that will be deeply disadvantaged when parking meters were operative. I think, and also that people think, that they could loose customers, in the sens that it will be more difficult to find green places, which are cheaper as I have written, there are green places in loading only places, what it is absurd, the shops or comercial areas, where it is impossible to arrive in by public transport, also would be affected, and so on. Gallardon says that more green places will be painted, if it was necessary, but says also that it is a slow process, because parking meters are not completely in use yet, they still have to put into operation the new parking meters, and see whether they work rightly or not. But the fact is that in some suburbs parking meters are causing uncertainty and doubts. As one person says on a local newspaper, for example, people in hairdresser's can't change the place of his or her car, while they are soaked haired, and because of this, it will be a certain problem to their pockets.

From my point of view,this measure of control the cars' parking is only a way to get money out of citizens, and nowadays, there are more and more impediments and obstacles to people who have a car. Probably the recent studies about pollution in Madrid, has revealed a very high level of  environmental pollution, and this could be a reason to put so many difficulties, like the new driving licence by points, or the great number of  roadworks, or for example the parking meters, in order to use less the cars in the future, or unless to decrease the pollution. Gallardon thinks also, that this new measure of parking meters, will be beneficial to citizens, because there will be sure places for a neighbourhood since there will be fewer vehicles in there. However, I think that there is people that have to use the car because of one's job, or other aspects; and also, it is unfair to put parking meters in modest suburbs.

To sum up, I have written about different aspects and opinions of people and me,of the stablishment of parking meters; and the view of  the Mayor , that thinks it will be beneficial to us. In my opinion, I think that to charge for park, is an abuse of power, an opresion of government, and they are taking advantage of citizens.

  

