

            In our present society has witnessed a popular acceptance of gay people, who no many years ago were lack of social rights and thought highly improper by the majority of population. Months ago ,Spanish government made a new law that give them the possibility of getting married by a jurisdictional way. However, there are many opinions about it, and it has been one of the most controversial laws that government has aprovated in this year. Through latest months, since the first gay couple got married. Another fact is that gays are also fighting to achieve the children adoption right, but this has not conceded to them yet. In this essay I will intent to argue that,  in my opinion,  there should be a complete acceptance of homosexual people, and they could have exactly the same rights than heterosexuals.

         Firstly, I personally believe that gay people marriage law is probably one of the best things this government has made, and in my opinion this law should have been approvated many years ago. Homosexuals are humans like heterosexuals and they have feelings, and if society reject them only for his sexual choose, we are holding up the mankind progress and we will have always stupid values like prejuice. Refering to the children adoption we ae talking about a more delicate topic, which carries on the intervention of a third person that is not an adult,  and may be the fact of he or she grow up without the presence of a mother or a father, could make the child feel different in relation to other children belonged to a heterosexual parents,  even if specialist like psilogist or psichiatrics say that if the children grow receiveing the love, the support, and the correct education of his parents he will become equal than the others. In addition , I have to say that there are many people who think positively about this law, and support that by the same reasons I have just given before. They are in the majority, people of liberal thinking who say that this law suppose a quick step for the progress of our society.

           In opposition of them, we the opinion of those, whose thinking about this topic is that it is wrong way for that we call "marriage" because, according to their policy, we can tolerate gay couples be recognized  jurisdictionally as a consolidation of their love, but the word"marriage" means the joining of a man and a woman.They are in the majority of cases, people closely catholic and was the catholic institution the first in complain the law.  Also, between people against that we can find those who have a very conservatism mind or who belong rightist ideological thinkings or political parties which when this law came out,  they organized two mass meetings in Madrid inmediatly, both were headlined by a organisation called "Foro de la Familia" in order to protest against this law, that seem to them as inmoral, and like a handicap for the keeping of the values which rules the true idea of a correct family. Between this crowd, we could see and hear in the media people which said that they respect the gay marriage law, but they were disagree with the children adoption by this kind of couples, because in their view they wouldn't have the correct education that a women and a men could give them. Moreover I feel in this way the only two that can obtain benefice of all this controverse,  are the catholic church and the main politic party that head the opposition now in spain "Partido Popular"which have common interesting, and that has supposed to them a good chance to strengthen their positions.
       
To conclude, I believe that people should be more opened to new ideas that probably make this country get much progress which can be better for us all. Many people could argue that they don't want to get progress because they have closed ideas to keeping the values they want stand, but if their values prejudice to any person , in my view we have to beat it  and change our mind to live much better, so the only thing that difference heterosexual and homosexual population is the liking of people of the same sex.

