


In our present society, the consumption of soft drugs as marijuana is very common, and just like tobacco, it is very easy to buy this substance, although it is not legal and it has an high cost. There is one only European country on which soft drugs are legalized: this is Holland, and, because of this, many people of other countries request the government make a law that allow the consumption of marijuana, seeing that Holland that law has not supposed any problem. In this essay I am going to show the different argument that people use concerning the topic of legalisation of marijuana and it's consequences.

Firstly, we have the opinion of those who think that if marijuana was legal, it would suppose the end of the black market whose leaders get every year millions of dollars at the expense of selling marijuana .Others argue that marijuana is as normal as tobacco and it has no several bad effects such like smoking tobacco habitually, which despite of being legal it is more adulterated than marijuana. 
Second, others whose point of view about it, is that marijuana should be legal, but only for pharmaceutical use, because many people who suffer strong diseases like cancer, have to submit themselves to painful treatments which produce them a very bad symptoms, and they need marijuana to reduce their suffering. If it was possible, the only market on which people could obtain marijuana, would be the pharmacy, if they were authorized by a medical recommendation. 
These argues are quite reasonables, but it depends all of the amount of marijuana people consume, because smoking cannabis in a large quantity produce bad mental effects like hallutinations, sick feelings which tobacco does not produce. Moreover, specialist as doctors, toxicologists etc. assures that one cigarette of cannabis is a 500 percent more prejudicial than a cigarette of tobacco. Also in relation to the argument of the black market ending, this one involves and controls many more dark business relationed to crime  of which they obtain too money to support it's power, and the number of crimes produced by people under the effects of soft drugs could increase. Maybe, if marijuana was legal, it would not reduce the crimes much.

On the other hand, some people point out that the legalisation of the marijuana only would harm young people health, which grow up thinking that marijuana is not so bad  because it is legal and many more would want to try soft drugs and, as we see, after proving it perhaps they would want to prove stronger drugs, like cocaine or LSD. Many people who think on this manner, say that they would make a law which forbid also tobacco and heavy drunks. These are a good arguments, because young people have to get the idea of all the drugs, included which are legal are very harmful to the body.

Comparing  the two opposite opinions respect to this topic, if the marijuana was a legal substance, the best way of selling it would be the authorised  establishments like pharmacies and only for medical use and it would be better that legal drugs as tobacco or alcohol were forbidden by government in order to preservate the society health.

To conclude, there are many different opinions concerning the legalisation of marijuana or other soft drugs, which make it a difficult solution. On one side, people who think it would be legal , because they need this drug to calm down the painful secondary effects of hard treatment of the ills they are throughing,  because of they are wasting many quantities of money in order to get that and, all this money go to the support of dark business which are controlled by criminal organisations like mafias. On the other side, we have the problem of the young people education. They grow with the idea of legal drugs are not so dangerous for health and even, if marijuana or other soft drugs were legalized they would have one more drug for trying and, in a future they perhaps will want prove stronger drugs.
