
  Nowadays in the developmental countries everybody have a car. Due to this there are traffic jams in towns when people go to work, especially in big cities like Madrid. The Spanish capital is the main place where the people of the region go to work and a lot of people go by car. All these cars and all the municipal public works create a lot of traffic problems.
  
   First of all, the best solution will be convincing people of using public transport because a lot of people go to work by car. This would solve two problems, the traffic and the pollution of the city. One bus occupies and contaminates as two cars and can carry a lot of people more, is more productive and environmentally friendly. The underground works with electricity and can carry 200 people per railroad car very fast under the town. Madrid have a very extensive net of public transport like other big cities, but it is crowded in the mornings and have several deficiencies (old trains and buses that sometimes stop working, dirty stations, etc...), so the public transport would need investments and improvements for replace the private transport. Other option could be oblige companies to contract private buses for transport their workers to the offices and to the factories and take then return home. Going by motorbike is fast and comfortable, but it's difficult to park it. Municipal laws forbid park motorbikes on the pavement so if you go to work by this way, you will have to park in parkings, something really difficult to do. Going by foot for short distances would be a good option, but public works make it difficult. Going by bike is healthy but there aren't ways for bikes and it is dangerous going by bike on the road. Moreover you need a bike, and will for pedal.

   If you can't convince people of using public transport, you can control the use of private transport. In some cities like Rome the quantity of cars that goes into the city is controlled (some days enters the cars with odd registration numbers and other days enters the cars with the even ones). In London you have to pay for enter into it. But here in Madrid the idea is to control the number of cars that goes into the city. The rest will park in parkings outside the town and beside the principal highways, and the people will there get the bus or the underground.

   Other things that create traffic jams are municipal public works. They are necessary for have a modern city, but the problem is that they are a lot of them being done at the same time. An organization about when and where do the public works would avoid traffic jams. Other conflicting points are the M-30 and the "Puerta del Sol". The M-30 is a motorway that surrounded the town, but the growth of Madrid has transcended it. Now it is being improved and it is a problem for the thousands of people that use it every day. The "Puerta del Sol" is a square in the centre of the town that will have a cercanias (a short distance train) station under it. Now it has under the ground a big underground station, so the public works for the railway station are complicated and take a lot of time. 

  In my opinion convince people of using other ways of transport and control the number of cars that goes into the city are best solutions for the problem of traffic, but for make them work are necessaries  investments and infrastructures. 



    
