   The movements of population from the poor zones to the rich zones are a common phenomenon throughout history. In Spain immigrants are actually the 7% of a population of almost 41 million people. The most numerous groups are South Americans, followed by Moroccans, South Saharans, Eastern Europeans and Chinese people. The major part of this people comes looking for a new life that they couldn't find in their countries, the principal reason because people emigrate. But some of them come for the good climate they haven't got in their countries, mostly Europeans like German and British people.

   "Immigrants do the jobs that the people of the country don't do". This is the principal slogan that uses the people who defence the immigration. In fact immigrants usually work in the agriculture, construction, bad paid services (telephone operators) and local shops. All these jobs are very hard and bad paid (except construction) and that's the cause because Spaniards don't do it. This phenomenon happens in the whole developmental countries and is normal and reasonable because immigrants are worse paid and have worse work conditions in their own countries.

   We can remember other cases of immigration in the past for analyse the new one, for example, when the Spanish emigrate to other countries in the fifties and in the sixties. When the Second World War finished, the United States set going the Marshall Plan. It rebuilt Europe and started a period of prosperity and peace (1950-1973). They obtain the "total employment" and needed not qualified man power for the jobs nobody wanted to do. The new wave of immigrants can seems the same situation but it isn't, because here in Spain there isn't a total employment. In fact we have 2,5 million of unemployed people. If there weren't nobody who would work for the salary those immigrants obtains, the salaries will grow due to the law of offer and demand, so Spaniards would do these jobs.

  But now immigrants don't do only not qualified jobs. Eastern Europeans came from countries which a high level of education (higher than the Spanish one) and some do jobs like doctors, nurses, teachers, etc...   Seeing the scholastic failure of Spain, in the future more of these immigrants will do qualified jobs.

   Other thing we could say about immigration in Spain is that they have increased the birth rate in the country which the lowest one. But what happens to these Spanish children with foreign parents? Some studies says that the major part of these children and teenagers have problems of integration and usually go with people that have parents with the same nationality or origin (sons of Moroccans are related usually with sons of Moroccans). These "sons of immigrants" are treated badly by the society and they could end in a gang (for example the "Latin Kings") or make violent acts for their unrest and fury (like it has happened in France). Is necessary a plan of integration and teach students ideas of equality and respect when they are children.

   There are a number of retired Europeans immigrants (European community) who came to Spain because of his climate and lower prices. They go usually to the beaches zones and in some towns they are the 20% of the population (Germans in the baleares islands and British in Malaga).But they come to immigrants that work there, usually in construction. It creates problems of integration.


