
 Over the last few years Spain has felt a remarkable increase in the amount of foreigners that arrive looking for a new and better way of life to that in their own country. It is no longer strange to find people of various nationalities in our streets. We often see South Americans, Arabs and people from Eastern Europe. This is a sign of progress and wealth in the country. Immigrants come to Spain in order to improve the quality of their former way of life, or to escape from the grasp of poverty and political conflicts.



 Immigration is a phenomenon that has been considered in different ways among the native population. Some accept immigrants with an open mind and find the diversity of cultures most interesting. On the other hand there are those who are under the cover of xenophobia and nonsensical prejudgments. My point of view is that racism is still a most extended virus among the Spanish. I think that the underlying reason is fear of other races owing to lack of knowledge or simple prejudice. These of course are not solid reasons to forbid the entrance of immigrants into Spain. It is more reasonable to consider these people as ones in necessity who can contribute a lot of good to our society. Xenophobia is totally out of place in modern days. Those who are not from our country are as qualified as any other to do their work. It is said that since immigrants accept lower salaries (because they may not have any other choice), they are occupying all of the jobs available in the working place. But this is a silly point of view. Most of the time immigrants work in the jobs that the locals usually reject. Construction and agriculture are being sustained by these workers that come from other countries. Therefore, we owe them a great part of our economic wealth. 

 It is also said that immigrants get involved in delinquency, adding the problems of their country to ours. It is true that recently there have being formed different bands of young disturbers that come from among the immigrants. Violent groups of Latin Americans are actually considered as some of the most dangerous of their kind. They usually commit their acts of vandalism near schools or other meeting places of the young, from minors to teenagers and young adults. Although this is true, we cannot ignore radical groups from our own country as if they didn't exist. In fact, there is no comparison in the amount of immigrant delinquents to the number of our own, in Spain. Therefore you cannot judge all the immigrants as disturbers of peace, not in general terms. Most of them are just as we are and only want a humble job to maintain their families and be accepted in their new environment. 

  To make this possible they need our help. Instead of pointing a finger at them, I am sure that a helpful and understanding hand would breach the gap between our culture and theirs, and therefore contribute to a mutual well-being of our society. We most also remember that there was also a time when a great number of the Spanish people emigrated to other countries for the very same reasons that these immigrants come here today. Even now Spaniards can be found living and working in countries all over the globe, especially in the United States, England and Central Europe, to name a few. Therefore, solidarity must be the corner stone of our society.


 To conclude, I will say that I don't consider immigration as a problem of any sort. It is a sign of progress and a great opportunity to expand our outlook on life and enrich our minds. Immigrants are not impediments in the working place, just as they are not the only cause of delinquency. Integrating them appropriately and correctly in all aspects of our society would certainly help to eliminate the problems and difficulties caused by treating them as intruders. 
