Madrid is one of the most populous cities of Europe. Most citizens of Madrid have one or two cars of their own. These factors cause a very common problem to big cities: chaotic traffic. Agglomerations and traffic jams aren't strange to anybody in the capital of Spain. Not only does this cause dislike and anger to the many car drivers, but it is also the reason for an alarming level of contamination. It is true that people need a safe way of transport to move around the city, but it is also necessary to take good care of our environment. Taking these factors into account I have tried to look for some possible solutions, which could be useful.


 Public transport is already offered as a reasonable alternative to using the car. Madrid has a very good subway system, actually one the best in Europe. Many people prefer using the subway instead of other ways of transport. Madrid also has a big offer of buses. Buses may sometimes get stuck in the traffic, but if more citizens used the bus, there wouldn't be these problems. The inconvenience is that most users find these means of transport very expensive. Every year public transport costs more, both subway  and bus. People think that it's cheaper for them to use their cars. It is true that there are special offers for regular users of public transport. Students and other members of the society can by tickets for a whole month, and therefore save some money. But most people still find these alternatives too expensive. Observing these factors I conclude that reducing rates in public transport would be a good idea for persuading drivers to leave their cars at home. This would help the traffic and would also be positive for the environment, because most of the public transports are moved by non-contaminating fuel.
 I think that another good idea would be for citizens to try and use other ways of transport, that would ease the problem of excess traffic and so prevent contamination. Walking and using bicycles are also good for our health. Not many people have sufficient time to do exercise. Modern life makes us always been in a hurry, and we need the quickest way to get where we want to go. So for those who can, this could be an interesting suggestion. Walking is wonderful exercise and furthermore, it's cheap! Riding a bicycle is not only healthy and inexpensive, but it's also fun. To impulse these alternative ways of transport I would suggest a better conditioning for bicycle riders in the city's streets.
 Cooperation between neighbours also reduces traffic problems. In other countries it is common to arrange plans in each community for sharing vehicles. Neighbours who take similar routes agree to share their cars, taking turns. Of course a very close interaction between the members of a same neighbourhood is needed. If this is possible, not only will it be good for reducing traffic, it will also benefit personal relationships in our city. Sharing with others in this aspect reduces parking problems as well.


 To conclude, I have found three basic points from where to begin reducing traffic problems in Madrid. First of all, I would suggest making the use of public transport (mainly bus and subway) more inviting by reducing the tariffs, in order to make people use it more likely instead of the car. Next, I suggest an improving of the streets in order to facilitate the use of bicycles and encourage walking, as an economic and ecologic alternative. Finally various people sharing the same car at the same time would greatly reduce the amount of traffic and consequent contamination. Adopting these measures would certainly make life in the city more pleasant and healthy.
 
 
 
