
Our old society believed that the ideal upbringing for a child is with two married and loving parents, one male, and one female. But of course, that nuclear family is actually a very recent, possibly 20th century model. Historically, the extended family and the wider community (the "tribe") were involved in bringing up children, not just the two immediate parents. Nowadays, the reality of life is somewhat different again, and many children end up in single parent families, perhaps with other members of the extended family involved, or with stepparents. In a sense moving back to the pre-20th century model. And if a child is adopted by a couple (whether heterosexual or homosexual), who is to say that they will stay together? What happens to the children then? What about non-monogamous relationships? Perhaps it should become the norm that children are adopted by primarily one parent (irrelevant of whether that parent is straight, gay or even bisexual). In this essay I intend to consider some of the reasons why gay couples should be allowed to get married and adopt children.

My personal opinion of this is that gay couples should be allowed to get married and of course there should be no reference to sex or sexuality when a child is considered for adoption. First of all, what matters is the commitment to provide a caring and loving home for that child. It does not matter whether the parents are straight or gay because they are going to do the same job as our parents did with us. The fact that there are so many children waiting for an adoption is huge and what these children want is not a mother and a father, is just someone to look after them, some one to care about them and some one to love them. Far from it, the Church did not agree with "gay marriage" because the word "marriage" involves a heterosexual union. But anyway, when two people get married it is just because they love each other and they want to make a commitment with each other and God, so why could not they get married and have the same rights that married couples have like the widow's pension?

Secondly, as with any discussion that involves the gay issue, the amount of ill-informed bigotry that is thrown around this fact is astounding. Also infuriating are the comments about "the gay lifestyle". A gay person's lifestyle is the same as a straight person's, the only difference is the person they share a bed with. The outcomes depend on the quality and commitment and strength of the individuals, not their sexuality. The same goes for parenting I believe. There are millions and millions of children in care in the world. Why do some people care so much about what happens to these children, yet give no considerations to the suitability of any straight person to be a parent. People must only concentrate on the fact that gay couples, whether male or female, are equally capable of providing care, love and commitment to each other and to any child they may raise. On the contrary, some psychologists think that children could find problems in their adolescent finding their sexuality. They say that a boy needs a father to grow up and see how he acts and then the boy could imitate him and find his own way of life, and the same thing with a girl. But in my opinion an adopted boy or a girl would have teachers at school, grandparents, aunts and uncles, cousins... whether male or female and they could see and get what they need in them and see how they act and imitate them, this tell us that they do not really need a female and a male in their family to find their sexuality; what they need is the love that they can not have in the children's refuges or the orphanages.

What's more, if we can improve the life of any orphaned child, do we not have a moral obligation to do so? Would a child not be better in a home and with a family (gay or straight) than in an orphanage? Some people say that these children would have problems in their school, because as we all know, children are very nasty sometimes with other children, but that is a problem to do with our society, not with the children. Also, children are very often bullied just cause of their body, or other problems like their way of reading or talking. Therefore there is not any problem for a child to be adopted by a gay couple, and if some one finds problems on that, what they must think is: where is the problem, on the gay couple or on the society around them?
 
In conclusion, it is clear from my point of view that gay couples are very well allowed to get married and adopt children. I believe that the most important thing in this subject is the child, and everything I mentioned above is for the benefit of the children. Parents are parents anyway, it does not matter whether they are gay or not, the important thing is that they are going to bring a child to life again, and it is better for a child to have a loving and caring family than being alone in a children's refuge. Gay couples can be as serious and responsible as any heterosexual couples. As I said, all the points mentioned are very important but we have to consider that all these children have rights, and we can never forget that. What really needs to be done is to show everyone on television, newspapers and magazines how these children live in the third world countries or orphanages and that the experts say that a child who has been risen with a gay family can be as happy as any other child. 



