The consumption of drugs like Marijuana is very common in our society and in our country, although as we know it is not legal. As with every illegal thing, people can get it anywhere and at a very low prize which  is very dangerous because this is only increasing the power of the traffic of drugs. Many people think that the legislation of drugs like marijuana can be very profitable to society in some aspects like "medicine", or at least, not as bad as some people might think, nevertheless other people are completely against it for many reasons and some people do agree with it but only with a control. In this essay I am going to show the different points of view that people use concerning the legislation of marijuana.

One possible argument in favour is that people who suffer horrible pains in their body would feel a lot better and the pain would be relieved if they take controlled doses of marijuana. Some of the evidence shows that marijuana does not have bad effects on people if the amount taken is checked by a doctor, it also helps people with cancer who have symptoms like nausea. It also seems that science can experiment a lot if marijuana is legal, and a lot of illnesses could be painless. As well as if the consumption of marijuana is legal, all the people addicted to it, would not feel  alienated from society. All these arguments are very convincing but of course the first one is the strongest. It is known that marijuana can make people be delirious if it is taken in huge amounts so it has to be emphasised that the amount of marijuana must be controlled by a doctor. 

On the contrary, some people think that the legislation of marijuana can be very harmful for our society. First, it can alter the condition of anyone who takes it with no control and this situation can cause a lot of accidents like car-crashes and many other things. Second, adolescents who are consolidating their minds and their ideas, could feel attracted by this drug because it is now legal, and could want to try it. And finally, as with any other kind of drug, marijuana is addictive and it burns neurons and what's more, neurons do not reproduce. However, our society should apply controls as it does with tobacco and alcohol (people under 18 cannot consume it) to prevent this problem.

It is apparently true that some people suggested that the legislation is a good idea but only if there is a control, that control must have: an age control,(people under 18 could not be able to get this drug from anyone, anyhow and anywhere), a control on the amount (only a very little amount of this drug should be given to the people who really need it, habitual consumers or sick people like cancer patients) and a control in the selling. Nevertheless, this is always a good thing to do, but as it happens with alcohol and tobacco it is very hard to control every one, and a lot of people who could not get it by law, would get it somehow, as it happens nowadays with some drugs.

In conclusion, all the arguments mentioned in favour are the fact that marijuana can help people who suffer terrible pains and can make a huge development in science; it can also make the habitual consumers less marginalized. On the other hand, legislation may produce a lot of  work and road accidents as well as addiction problems and if the doses are high some neurons in the brain can be burnt what has no solution because the neurons in our brain do not reproduce. Of course, some people agree with the legislation of marijuana but only if there is a control on some aspects.

