


        Some decades ago a lot of people were excluded and convicted person by the law because they had other sexual inclination and all the people thought that it was one illness. Nowadays, this theme is very normal and step by step the people understand that it is no problem and we should to have an open-minded also the government are doing all this easier. In this essay I will try to argue what are in my opinion the causes of this subject of conversation and how the history has influenced on this. I will also suggest some possible solutions to eradicate this problem.


         On the one hand, I think that this problem isn't so important because always has had homosexual people, but the principal guilty people are the clergy and the government. Since centuries ago, this people have tried persuading to people for repelling this sexual inclination, the clergy said that gay people were sinners and all were influenced by demons and they have to die into the blaze moreover somebody said that Jesus and Bible repudiated this practice. Nazism also sentenced with the dead this inclination. Even in 19th and 20th centuries a lot of people thought that they were guilty of transmitting AIDS. In spite of this, a lot of gay people were concealed from the society and they got survive to tell their experiences.


          On the other hand, other xenophobic people think that this is an anti-natural behaviour and it is unacceptable. This people are, hardly ever, old people because they have different customs and their mind is closed. Also, this management is usually transmitted to young people; all depend on their parents and friends. The politicians also influence with people, depending of their politic inclination. For example, in Spain allow homosexuality "el PSOE"" and critic this "el PP". Speaking personally, I believe that this people need some cultural education and learn about human right.


           As in the previous paragraph I was speaking about the government ideas, nowadays is important two laws that the Spanish government has impose, these are: get married between gay people and adopt children.


           First, on the previous year 2005, the government has allowed to get married between gay people. This law has had different points of view: The people that accept this law think that it is one way toward one free society and congratulate the government, because I think that these persons have a right to live next to their love and to have a happy life, they are person like us. Nevertheless, there are a lot of people that think that this is a mistake. They argue that this marriage is anti-natural and it can be called matrimony because this word means one relationship between one MAN and one WOMAN. This kind of people also says that homosexuality could be a mental illness and is possible that this disease had been produced by their education and relationship with their mother, but I think that it is false, because I think that all depend of our brain and liking.  

          Second, on the previous year 2005, the government also has been thought introduce one more law: adoption  kids by homosexual couple. This law is more controversial because somebody say that to have two parents and no mother could affect to their social life and their psychology. I think that it is false because the problem isn't the mind but the society, if the people accepted homosexuality these kids wouldn't be discriminated and all would be normal, although we have to wait for knowing more about these scientific discoveries, if there are.



           In conclusion, I think that homosexuality isn't illness but a necesity to some people to express their love towards other person; they aren't mental diseases, they don't the only transmitter of  AIDS, they aren't different and specially they aren't the problem although I think that the real problem are we and our mind, because we need more cultural education and  we should be more respectful, moreover EVERYONE  ARE EQUAL.
                                                                                        







