In our present society it is normal to see heterosexual and homosexual couples although we usually see more heterosexual coulples. The statistics show us that 10.460 people in Spain (0.09% of the population) are gay but it's not a real date because there are a lot of gay people who don't say their real sexual tendency because they are afraind of the prejudices or to be marginazed by a society that is still a little bit out of date and that's why they don't appear in this statistics. However I'm not going to talk about numbers or cientific facts, what I am going to do is to develop my personal opinion about this subject. I am going to argue for the homosexual weddings and the opposition of the adoption from homosexual couples.

There have been homosexual people from long time ago, but they have been oppressed by historical, social, religious and other causes. We cand find an example in Spain, in the Middle Age, La Inquisici - n had a lot of authority and punished hardly the homosexuality because of religious principles. Nowadays the Church have a huge influence over the society because there are a lot of christian people who can be convinced by their theories, that's why they consider the homosexuality as something bad which should not exist. The homosexual people was opressed too during the dictatorships, for example in Spain, symptoms of oppresion were shown until 1975 when the dictator Franco died. This oppresion has remained during a long time because of the old-fashioned culture of the society due to the long period of Franco's government. These days the government is more tolerant with these people, even they are allowed to get married by law. I think that they have right to say openly their sexual tendencies and to celebrate marriages after a lot of repression centuries like the heterosexual couples, if they are interested in it.

In addition, during the last years, gay people had tried to demand their rights, considering one of them the possibility of adopting children as a heterosexual couple.. In my opinion it's a more complicated subject because it doesn't affect only to the memebers of the couple, it also affects children involved in the adoption. I feel that the society is not prepared to accept a family whose children are being brought up by two mothers or fathers. People could prejuzge this situation and damage the children. It's true that a homosexual couple can educate children, this adopted child will live beeter with them that in a Third World Country, being marginazed, illtreated or exposed to numerous illness and diseases. But in my opinion is beter that a heterosexual adopt him, until the society get used really to see gays couples. We should also consider the fact that is not still easy to adopt a child from a heterosexual family, because of the big demand and the difficulties found in the process of adoption.

In conclusion, I have exposed two very important points about the gays couple's theme: Firstly, I consider that they have right to get marry like the heterosexual couples and to manifest it after a long period of opression during the History. To continue with, I find a lot of prejudices in our days that would impede children to live propertly in a family with gay parents, because of this, I think it's beter not lo legalize the adoption. Finally, I expect that in a near future, people will be more tolerant, the prejudices will disappear and they will consider the homosexual couples as normal as the heterosexual.

