In our society, drugs are a big problem that affect to a lot of people and the cause of a lot of deaths. Teenagers are the most affected people by the drugs. They try these substances because they see it in their setting or in their friend's group and they want to experiment with new things, have new experiences or just to abandon the routine. There are many kinds of drugs but I am not going to talk about all of them. I am going to talk about the posibility or imposibility of the legalisation of marijuana, a soft but very common drug that a lot of young and mature people consume.

A research suggests that the majority of people think that marijuana sould not be legalized because it is also a drug, an addictive and damaging substance for the health. They say that if the consumption of marijuana is an important problem in our days, being forbidden in a lot of countries, much more people would consume this drug if the governments allow the contract of sale and the problem would increassses seriously. They think that the countries governments must fight against the drugs with publicity and campaingns. These arguments seem to make sense because is true that if something is legal in a place, for example the weapons in U.S.A. the people buy it. Although, in some countries like Holland the soft drugs like marijuana, jachis and some mushrooms are legal and people consume it moderately.

Some people, above all teenagers, feel that marijuana should be legalized: some of them think that marijuana is not more damaging than tobacco or alcohol and because of this they feel that if these "drugs" are legal, marijuana should be legalized too. This could be considered a realistic perspective because is true that alcohol and tobacco are drugs too that annul our wills and damage our healt, but the solution to this problem would not be to legalize marijuana. The best to do would be to inform about their damaging effects and try to persuade to consumers to avoid them to have it. In the other hand, some people believe that a lot of teenagers smoke marihuana because it is forbidden, or because they are rebellious against the rules and they argue that if marijuana were legal less young people would consume it. This argument may be true but nobody can know it exactly.

There is some people who is in favour of the legalisation of marijuana only in concrete cases, like the consume for therapeutic purposes and adults. In one way, people who defends the marijuana consume with therapeutic purposes say that there is a lot of terminal ill people who is suffering and they could calm their pain with marijuana, but they would have to buy the substance with a medical recipe. This point is rather convincing because nobody have to be suffering if this can be avoided. And in other way, people who defends that adults should can buy marijuana for themselves, because they are responsible and free to do whatever they want with their body and health; but they say also that the marijuana sale should keep being forbidden for children and teenagers. This argumet is rather convincing too, because a person in legal age should can do whatever he wants, if he or she do not damage to nobody. But the problem is that children and teenagers could access illegally also to this drug like they access to the alcohol now.

In conclussion, there are three main and debatable viewpoints about the theme of the marijuana legalisation: firstly people who is in favour of the legalisation of marijuana, secondly people who is against of this and finally people who is in favour of the legalisation only in some concrete cases, illness for example. Marijuana is one of the most common drugs in our society and it seems that government try to make aware to the people about the risk and the danger of these substance. It will probably help to teenagers to be far of that danger world.

