The mayority of people think that there are too many vehicles in Madrid. Our society seems to have got used  to the idea of cars and traffic jam are normal something in a big city.

They don`t avoid this disaster and all mornings many people take the car for going to the job. However,some people complain  that  there are lots of atmosferic pollution and noisy. Because of these things is imposible the life in Madrid. In this essay I intend to argue that there should in my opinion be some limitations and prohibitions of use of cars.
. 
Firstly, I personally believe that there should increase the number of pedestrian areas to reduce the large number of cars in the center of Madrid.
In the future, different pedestrian areas  could be a peaceful place where people will have a coffee or a beer talking with friends in a pavement café in summer. Also the council of Madrid might build in theses areas buildings such as museums or libraries to promote the culture in our country.
However, there are those who think that to build these areas the only thing it will bring more emigrant people selling compacts  discs  cheaper than in anywhere place in our streets.

Secondly, I think there should be improving public transport and there ought to give priority to public transport on the movement of traffic. There is no doubt that using our own car is much more comfortable than travelling by public transport as it can take us anywhere at any time. However, I believe that a big city there should offer an efficient and punctual system of buses  local train and underground networks to solve the problem of traffic congestion.
 It is essential for a city to be well served by public transport so that its citizens can move around easily to go to work o to enjoy their free time. In addition we should never forget that public transport is much cheaper and cleaner and people should be encouraged to use it.

To conclude, all members of our society should try make a society cleaner and more healthy for the future. I personally believe that if we don`t  help for it our planet will damage more and more and it couldn`t  have solution.
