     
     Two of the main European countries, Spain and Great Britain, have recently implemented a law which recognizes marriage between same sex couples. This has brought up the issue of whether homosexual partnerships should have the same rights and allowances than heterosexual ones or not, namely, the advantages that carries the legal status of marriage and the possibility of bringing up children. I personally believe that discrimination with regards to the sexual preference of a person should be deemed as censurable as that related to race, sex, origin or social class. In this essay I will thus explain why in my opinion the legalization of gay marriages and everything which is involved in such legitimation is a wise and perfectly justifiable iniciative.
     
     Love and respect are the basis of a healthy realtionship and these should be the only two unavoidable conditions under which marriage takes place. The sex of its members does not matter when it comes to the amount of love and mutual respect professed by each other. In fact, heterosexual unions are nowadays highly problematic, as shown by the alarming increase of divorces or the baffling issue of domestic violence. Yet lots of people still believe that gay couples are unnatural and sinful. Needless to say, these people are mainly religious followers of one or another faith, who put forward archaic arguments based on believes rather than facts and figures. For instance, the Bible admitelly states that unions should have the one and only aim of procreation and therefore can only take place between a man and a women. However, many heterosexual couples do not have any children and nobody seem to argue against their right to marry. Furthermore, there are some religious branches of Catholicism which accept homosexual marriage, as happens in the Church of England, where some ministers have been giving blessings for gay couples for years now. Therefore, in a modern society where freedom and respect are the main achievement, both should also apply to the sexual preference and the legal rights of homosexuals.
     
     
     
     Closely related to this religious issue, a terminological polemic raised on the basis of the way in which homosexual marriages should be named. Following my believe in equality, in my opinion gay legal unions should be called as any other union, that is, marriage. However, this is taken as a sacrilegious fact, since marriage has been traditionally a religious institution. This is, nonetheless, an old-fashioned and unreasonable position, for marriage is no more what it used to be ever since civil unions were implemented. Fearing the threat of difference, the spanish Family Forum got hold of this arguments as one of their main points against the legalization of gay marriages. The British, having learnt the lesson, used, both in the media and in political discusions, the word "legal partnership". This is just to show how meaningless this lexicografical issue was: no matter the way you call it, the right of gay couples to benefict from the legal advantages of marriages is finally being noticed and supported.
     
     In order to move on in the discussion, I shall now argue more specifiaclly about these so-called beneficts derived from marriage, being the most polemic of all the right to bring up children. Granted that heterosexual marriages do not guarantee stability and even the most infamous couples are allowed to have children, I believe that homosexual couples should be treated the same way. Arguably, they can be as loving and caring as  heterosexual couples. It may be argued that a child needs of the two traditional parental figures: the father and the mother. However, many children are being brought up by single mothers or fathers being this circumstance harmless for the kids. Furthermore, these two figures, the mum and the dad, are mere figurative representations of  the qualities needed to educate a child correctly, which vary sharply from one psycho-pedagogical theory to another. The capacity to fulfill these requirements do not depend upon sex, but it rather lays on individual character and personality. Therefore, children can grow up in a heterosexual home as happy as they can do in a gay one and thus they should, in my opinion, be allowed paternity.
     
     In conclusion, it is cristal clear from my point of view that homosexual couples must be able to get married and hence acquire all the legal rights carried within marriage. Tolerance and equality are two of the main achievements of modern society. Any form of discrimination must be eradicated, and one of its most blatant forms is the refusal to legalize homosexual unions or marriages. No matter how it is named, gay legal partnerships are as rightful as heterosexual ones. Given that gay couples can provide a child with the attentions he or she needs to grow up soundly, they should therefore be legally capable of bringing up a child if they wish to, just as any heterosexual couple are. Thus, I strongly support the iniciatives of Spain and Britain, and hope that their examples will be followed, as a serious attempt of democracies to fulfil their goals and a step forward towards the ideal of freedom.
     
     
     
     
     
     
