
     Spain was by far the country which received more immigrants during the past year, 2005. That meant an increase of 7% of the population. The issue of immigration has gradually become one of the main concerns of the country. Traditionally, Spain has been more an emigrants country than an immigrants one. But since it acquired a wealthy economic and social status, crowds of immigrants started flowing, mainly from South America and North Africa. In this essay, I will try to analize how the spanish population is dealing with the subject.
     
     One of the strongest arguments put forward against the reception of immigrants is that they (the immigrants) take up our (the spanish's) jobs. Indeed, greedy spanish businessmen soon saw in the immigration femomena a gold mine of cheap working force. If that is so, then it seems logical to think that the immigrants are victims, and the businessmen should be the ones to be blamed. Moreover, research shows that the rather aged spanish society relies on these new citizens-to-be for its future economic stablility. Therefore, it could be argued that what we are giving now, we will get back in the future.
     
     In the same frame of mind, it is widely believed that immigrants are bringing violence over to Spain. A recent survey made in Madrid relates the rise of the criminality with the presence of immigrants. It appears to be true that fenomena such as the Latin Kings or the link between moroccan or eastern european communities and  the increasingly common assaults and muggings are taking place. However, it seems reasonable to argue that immigrants often find themselves jobless in a particularly hostile and unwelcoming society, being these the utter reasons for their turn to criminality. Therefore, rejection and incomprehension are perhaps not only hindering any possible solution, but also worsening the problem itself.
     
     On the other hand, many people advocate inmigration fully. Their point is that frontiers should be eradicated and people allowed free to move around the globe. This might be the way of finishing with the unequal share of the world's wealth. These argument seems to make sense, for the First World countries got to that position by the indiscriminate exploitation of the Third World ones which is still taking place in the form of economic imperialism, as a substitute of the former colonialism. Although this viewpoint appears to be the most human, it has certain weakness since it is too utopic to be put into practise. The opportunity to become a multi-cultural society is also argued by those who support the rights of immigration. This point is rather convincing, becouse it has been proven that an opened society is nowadays less prone to conflict than those in which life is arranged around one and only set of beliefs.
     
     The opinions of experts, intellectuals and politicians are generally more in the mid-point. Due to their knowledge of and implication on the issue, they take into account all its complexity. In her recently published book, Ana María López states that <Q>. Thus, the spanish government is struggling to get the flow under control and, on doing so, it is trying to keep contempt both the spanish population and the increasingly large immigration community. Some writers and journalists point out often how necessary a greater effort towards integration is. For instance, Winston Manrique, journalist of El País, believes that "Spain is novel in this kind of experiences, from which both the country and the immigrnts benefict". It seems generally agreed that some social measures must be carried out, such as educational programs towards tolerance.
     
     To conclude, Spain seems to be in a rather controversial situation. The new and overwhelming fenomena of immigration is felt both as a threat to spanish social stability and identity or as an opportunity of cultural development. The arguments in favour of tolerance appear more reasonable in terms of mankind. They seem to be the only civilized way of mending an alredy quite tense situation, and it could be considered the only ethically and morally correct position.
