      
      
      
      Recently, in Spain, it has been passed a new law in favour of the homosexual couples. Other countries such as Netherland, some parts of Canada and Masachusetts (E.E.U.U.) have passed this law, as well. Even though according to some investigations realized in these countries have demonstrated that 79%  thinks that homosexuality is as respectable as heterosexuality, there is still 21%that do not think in this way.In this eassay I intend to show , in my opinion, the reasons why homosexual couples should be able to get married and also adopt children. 
 
      For my part, I believe that homosexual marrige is a way of stopping the discrimination. The homosexual couples have been excluded by the society and restricted by the law. Heterosexual marrige and homosexual marrige are both of them copules in one way or in another, but they are, the only difference is the sexual orientation. Some people state or maintain that having other sexual orientation is unnatural, different so the marriges between people of the same sex are not consider as a marrige itself. Nevertheless, I think that the sex orientation is something very personal that shouldn't interfer in the rights of other people. For example, interinterracial marriges or marriges with a huge deifference in age are not considered as marrige with the same rights?. At long last, they are couples with differences in race, in age, etc. Well, in this case, the difference is in sexual orientation. The problem is that, in my opinion, the homosexual orientation is a prejudice established since the Catholic Church was implanted centuries and centuries ago, that nowadays, some people still have. The homosexual practise was allowed in great civiliations such as ancient Greek or persian. So the homosexuality have always existed and I think it is time to allow the homosexual copules to have the same rights as the hetersosexual couples and not to stuck in the same rules. The fact that our society is changing have to be accepted and politically, these changes should be undertaken.

      From the official point of view,the marrige between homosexual couples, it seems to me, a good way of  putting in order their state. As a couple, they shoud have the same rights as the heterosexual couples. The goverment establish the right of a man and a woman to get married. But on the other hand, they also establish that everybody have the same rights independently of the sex. However, many people do not consider these marriges inapropiate for having a normal life such as heterosexual couple life. But personally speaking, this thought is very subjective, everybody understands diffrenetly what a normal life is. In adittion to that, allowing the homosexual marriges they will finish with social problems like equality of rights in couple life and with familiar problems. For example, if they have problems they will be able to claim or demand and they will be treated as a heterosexual marrige with the same conventions. The fact that our society is changing have to be accepted and politically, these changes should be undertaken.

      Another right that this new law allows is the fact of adopting children by homosexual couples. This part of the new law is more controversial. Many people including experts in psychology and also another specialists are against the adoption by homosexual couples for two main reasons. First, these experts establish that for a good and healthy child's development it is strongly necessery the paternal or maternal figure.The usual behavior of a child is imitating what he or she is watching in his or her house, so If they grow up in a homosexual environment, they think that these children will tend to be homosexuals. And the second reason is the argument that these children will be left out by the other children , in other words, they will be rejected by the society. 
      
      On the other hand, I disagreed with the two arguments developed in the previous paragraph. First of all, the fact that every child needs to have a maternal and a paternal figure could be true but this is not a reason to not permit homosexual adopt. Many studies have shown that the parents' sexual orientation do not influence in the child's orientations. In our society, there are several families that consist of a single mother or a single father with their children, and the children of this type of families do not tend to have propensity for homosexuality. Let's look this argument from  other point of view. The children that come from a heterosexual family,they can be homosexual. This is a demonstration that does not matter what family children can grow up with, because it does not make children to have a specific inclination. I really believe that is better that the children must grow up in environment of respect, a good live as family instead of  a problematic and misbehaved environment. And about the second reason, I think that if kids are familiar with this new types of families they will end up accepting them as another kid. Children do not care about this topic, so they do not have all these prejudices that adults have, and if the adults do not show them this opinions there will be no more problems. 
      
      To sum up, I agree with the marrige between homosexual couples and the permisition of this couples of adopting children. This eassy has dealt with the discrimiantion to the homosexual couples that have suffered, the fact that these couples have the right to formalize their situation as another couple more and formalizing this situation includes of course the right to form a family by adopting children. In my opinion, this law is a good solution for this new type of living as family, and also by adopting children is a incredible chance for a child that do not have anything in her or his country of origin.  



 
