


   
   The immigration is not a new aspect of life. It has existed since ages from different countries. Many people from european countries emigrated to America or to other colonies in Africa, Asia, etc. Nowadays, the emigration comes from african, asian, or sudamerican countries to european countries or to northamerica. In Spain, to be exact, the immigration is going up very fast because of  closeness of Africa and because of our lenguage. It is a advantage for all these people that come from a spanishspeaker country. However, this movements are provoking some good and bad consequences showing unlike viewpoints about immigration. In this essay I intend to consider different points of view about the increase of the immigrant population in Spain.

     Some people would argue that this rise of immigration is the causer of the worst problems.  Firts of all, by the immigration, the members of international terrorism gropus can be allowed to stay in our country without being noticed. So they can commit terrorist outrage against a huge number of people very easily such as 11th March. Second, the number of gangs, such as The Latin kings or Los Ñetas, is also increasing and becuase of this fact the avarage of crime is also rising. Nevertheless, this two arguements seems to bring into general use the immigration,  now that many immigrants come here just to have a chance for having a better life.

     From other point of view, the immigration may cause an excess of population that can affect negatively to our society. If more immigrants come, then it will much more difficutl for them to find a job. The unemployment of these people might cause more activity in the drug traffic, or arm traffic, etc, so it would be a way of earning money to survive. However, it could be argued that drug traffic or other activities are very complex and deep problem that with or without the immigration would still exist. So the real problem here would not be the immigration. 

     According to other's viewpoint, the immigration prodeces an increasing of crimes related to racism. It is thought that violence is rising because of  bands like skin-heads. So some people think that if the immigrants had not come, these bands would not act so cruel and promote this idea of racism.  On the other hand this argument is quiet unrealistic and also cynical because this kind of bands do not only harm people of other races, they can do anything to a spanish boy just because he is wearing other type of clothing or just because of having long hair, so even though it would not be any immigrant this groups will not stop making trouble.
     
     Other people might claim that the immigration should be permitted  but with some limits and also asking for a specific requierments. In other words, the immigrants would come only if they make clear their intentions of not making any trouble. This goal could be achieved by making them having a contract before going to the country they want, or by seeing if they have had any problem with law, etc.  None the less, these requierments are already established but it seemes not te be very effective, since there are a lot people that can fake their papers so they can go anyhwere they like. 
     
     Many other people believe that living together with other people from different cultures would supply benefits to our society. First, having a very cosmopolitan society is very good for the knowledge of other cultures and ways of living. Second, this knowledge would help to become a narrow-minded society into a open-minded society. For example, if children grow up in a multicultural environment, it will be very useful for them because then they will be much more tolerant. So consequently, there would be less problems concerning to racism. Although this viewpoint apperas to be persuasive, It has certain weakness. This point would have an effect in a oppsite way. By having many cultures living together, they could tend to gather in their own groups and not to tolerate each other, so it is quiet utopian.   
     
     Finally, a recent studies indicates that thanks to the fact that this increase of immigrant population, the birhtrate is going up. This fact could be beneficial for our society because it will not be a old society anymore. So this can be traduced in more benefits for the goverment. On the other hand, this may cause a huge problem of over population that can have a very bad consequences. 
     
     In conlusion,  this essay has discussed the pros and the cons of immigration under different viewpoints. Immigration might be the responsible for the problems such as international terrorism, the increase of violence, high level of poverty so consequently more activity in drug-traffic, etc. The arguments in favour would be the increase of birthrate, but also the immigration can have an effect on people of tolerance, and people from Spain can have the chance of knowing other cultures without moving to other country. On balance, the immigration should be allowed because it is true is beneficial in some ways but it has to have limits and requierments to guarantee the social welfare.
     
      

 
