
      Tobacco has been one of the most controversial problems in recent decades. On January 2006, a new law has been implanted in Spain, Anti-smoking law. It's forbidden to smoke in not smoking areas; like at work, where people is working with pregnant women; pub being more than 100 square meters, if there's not places built to smoke; inside a train, a bus or a plane, and also, inside train or bus stations and airports, if there's not places built to smoke. Also, it's forbidden to sale tobacco in medical centres, schools, cultural and sports centres designated to children and teenagers, and in places not allowed smoking. It's required to be older than 18 years old, so then, if anyone sell someone, younger than 18, tobacco, this person will has to pay a fine of 1 million euros. Finally, its prohibited tobacco's advertising on television, magazines, etc. Many people agree with this new law, because their requests have been heard, and many people disagree with, because their rights as smokers have been eliminated. However, there's a troubled situation since this new law has been implanted. In this essay I will discuss different viewpoints about tobacco and Anti-smoking law.
      
      To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of this new law. Many people believe that It's necessary to establish some rules to control the tobacco's painful. Spanish Department of health is designing and publishing new advertisements about the new law, to help passive smokers to not suffer the painful of tobacco from others active smokers, by the way, the new law tries to help to active smokers to leave tobacco. Spanish Minister Elena argues that "Anti-smoking law isn't going against anyone and neither against active smokers", only that it's important to avoid so many deaths per year that tobacco causes. In Spain, this drug cause 50.000 deaths per year and approximately, 700 persons die every year because of an involuntary inhalation from an active smoker. Many inactive smokers agree with this new law because they can enjoy different places without the trouble of inhale a toxic air by tobacco, and they are trying to convince their relatives or friends to leave tobacco; so this new law would be like a Joker to solve it. However, it seems to be a useful and valuable argument in favour of the new law, but it's not only a law to help people's health; it's an economical painful situation which doesn't help to get votes of everybody. These arguments seem quite convincing to the smokers to change their lifes and put away the tobacco from their lifes, and It helps inactive ones to feel and to live better without unhealthy smoke; It's shown by the Sociological research centre (CIS), with a 77% in favour of this new law, and a 70,5% who think that this new law will help the people's health.

      The strongest argument against Anti-smoking law is that this new law is too exaggerated. Hard fines, few places to buy tobacco, and determinate places to smoke it, make this law an enemy of every smoker and merchants with a normal new life without a free tobacco. Many workers are afraid with this new law because they have to be stayed away of their works for a minutes to smoke their cigars, because it's forbidden to smoke inside; and this, could be generate many dismissals. The sales of cigars get down a 4,7% on January, and is going down; this make that the little trades with a big dependency of tobacco's sales has had to close up because their economical income aren't enough to survive. Also, the big tobacco's companies are reducing the tobacco's prices which don't help to these shops. Esperanza Aguirre, Madrid's president, argues that <Q>, also she argues <Q>. But many people are expending much money in alternative methods to leave tobacco, and many times it isn't enough to get it. It is apparently true that many people are trying to leave tobacco for this new law with alternative methods, It is shown in the extra sales of 'Nicotinell' which increase a 140% of sales on the second week of January and is going up, but Maite Alibau, Chief operating officer of Novartis Consumer Health, argues that <Q>. These arguments are rather persuasive to think that smokers are suffering the prohibitions of this new law, and they don't have any right. It's demonstrated with really expensive fines from 30€ to 10.000€, with few places to buy tobacco (only in the allowed ones) and with a restrictive places to smoke.
      
      On the other hand, there are many mid-points of view which agree with the law but not at all. Many inactive smokers argues that It's really excessive the treat to the smokers, like to restrict the places to buy tobacco and a really big fines to pay. Many smokers are afraid about don't have any place to smoke, big fines and few places to buy smoke, and there're many tobacco sellers with a lot of economical problems. So the mid-points are about a "new" law less excessive, which contains the same rules but with new arguments as: to conserve the same places to buy tobacco because this shops are going to ruin. The most of this shops is dedicated to the tobacco's sales, and others, depends of the economical incoming from the tobacco. Second, it's necessary to build smoke areas in the places of 100 square meters, as in the work places. Third, about the fine, it's excessive to anyone with a normal pay from work. Fourth, about tobacco's advertisements, its unnecessary eliminate them from television, magazines, etc; people will go on smoking without tobacco's advertisements. And finally, Spanish Government has to help smokers who want to leave tobacco, with free medical treatments and alternative methods, because they're really expensive. These arguments are rather persuasive, except the second one, because many people want of smokers to leave tobacco, and it wouldn't help to solve it. But in general, are really good arguments to modify the new law, and make it a little bit permissible for people.
      
      In summary, this essay has focused on smokers and not smoker's thinking about this new law. Anti-smoking law contains many rules don't accepted by everybody; in addition, this new law could be different to help everyone. One reasonable prediction is that it's necessary a little change in the new law, trying to adapt it for everybody, because this new law is making troubles in the society. On the basis of this, it would seen to be a good idea to have a remake of the law based in a healthy focus with free medical and alternative methods, and most help to smokers who want to go on smoking, with places where do it, and places where buy tobacco, because this will help to go up the shops which are going to ruin. Finally, It's unnecessary that kind of big fines to pay. So, there're many different possibilities to make the life of many people better.



