
      Gay people have been persecuted for Ages, but nowdays, they can live in calmness, but in some countries, they're still persecuted, or being considered like sinners or sick people by luxury or by psychological problems, so then, they don't have the support of a big part of the society. Anyway, it's seems that thanks to Government's supports, with a law which authenticates as legal a married between gay people, make that most people think that gay people can get married as a common couple, but it's still difficult to assimilate a family formed by two women or two men with children. However, Gay people are human beings, so they've the same human rights than anyone.
      
      Personally speaking, I believe that gay people have to have the same rights that heterosexual people, these rights are for example, get married or adopt children, because they've the rights of be parents too. Nowdays, there's many examples of recent marriages between homosexual people, thanks to the new law for a legal marriage of gay people. But this doesn't means that everybody be agree with this situacion, so then many people is answering to this law with a: "We consider that gay people have not capacited to form a family, and they can't get married".
      
      Religious people believe in a couple formed by a man and a woman, and only this kind of couple could get married. They argue that the human being's cycle of life is from the conception of a woman with a man, and gay people can't conceive new life, and also, they think that people get married to have children. Although, it's true that gay people can't conceive in a natural way like heterosexual people, but I argue that it's known many system to conceive thanks to scientific methods which make true a dream of someone or of a couple who want to have a child. Many Scientifics have demonstrated that it's not necessary the typical sexual structure to the human conception, that's mean that a woman could be pregnant without a sexual relation with a man, so It's possible, for example, with anonymous semen donors, that's possible since 1976, thanks to Hunt who got that a woman was pregnant by an artificial insemination. In July 25th, 1978, born the first baby from an in vitro fertilization, Louisa Brown, by Patrick Steptoe and Robert Edwards, and the first frozen embryo baby was born in 1984.
       
      In the other hand, I believe that gay people can be parents who can adopt children who are waiting for people who love them, and gay people can love them like other ones whom are able to love their children. Religious people don't support the idea of gay people adopting children, because they argue that a family need a mother and a father, not two mothers or two fathers. Recently studies of children psycology shown that a child can live with a family formed with two men as two fathers, and two women as two mothers without a bad repercusion in the children. Religious people argued that a child from a gay family could became in a gay one, because gay people are ill, or have psycologic problems. I think that this is a vague argument to not accept gay people, because, gay people born homosexual, not is a process in their life time of transformation. This is supported by differents medical studies about it. A child could be refused by other children because of his/her family. Many people aren't tolerant and give an education to their children based of intolerant ideas that only make difficult the relation between children. But this hasn't to be a problem for gay people to adopt, I think that the actual society need a mind change based in tolerance.
      
      In summary, this essay has presented that gay people is able to be like a heterosexual people. They can get married, and they can adopt children and give them a good education like a typical family. They aren't helped for that people who think that everything has to be like always it had been, but I think, they don't take care about many families of heterosexual people who have children, and the couple is broken and children are living with one of the parents, many families of heterosexual people who abuse of their children, or many families of heterosexual people who doesn't love their children. It's necessary a change from the society and give an opportunity to gay people to demostrate how able they are to be good parents and good families. I believe that unless this happen, many people will go on thinking about gay people that they're sinners or sick people by luxury or by psychological problems, that they have to be out of the society, and many gay people will be discriminated, and they will not enjoy their rights, and also, maybe many children will be without a family because many people think that they are better in a orphan than in a gay family.
