



	In all civilizations have existed a lot of types of soft drugs like cannabis, tobacco and cigarettes, alcohol and another substances that the human beings have used like a way to escape of  the reality and problems. They have used these subtances to have fun and to keep them amused. An example is the poets of the Romanticism who used drugs to escape of their reality where they were not happy living in this society. Nowadays, the consumption of soft drugs is very common in our society, especially cannabis and Marijuana. The problem  is: these substances are not legal in Spain. The only country where cannabis is legal is Holland. However, cannabis is consumed in all countries of the world. In this essay, I am going to show the different opinions of the people about the legalisation of Marijuana.

	Some people would argue that the legalisation of Marijuana is a decision that had to have been taken a lot of time before. These people are for the legalisation of Marijuana and they are usually young people. Some of their main arguments  in favour are: First, They argue that the Marijuana is the same that the cigarettes and these do not cause bad effects on people's health. For this reason the Marijuana should be legalised like the tobacco. Second, they think the Marijuana is good for the hapiness of the people because it makes people have fun, they keep amused and people are happy because they get forget their problems. Finally, the Marijuana should be legalised because this new law will make the ilegal traffic of drugs reduces. This last argument seems logical because if the ilegal traffic is reduced, a lot of problems will finish like deaths because of adjustes of accounts and prostitution. These problems are directly relationated with drugs ilegal traffic.
  
	On the other hand, the most of the people might claim that the legalisation of Marijuana should be forbidden. These people are against of this. It seems that the people who are against of the legalisation of the Marijuana are adult people like parents, the majority of the doctors and the Church... Their main arguments are: First, Marijuana is a type of drug and  because of this is very bad. It damages the people's health with different forms: loss of memory, hallucinations, states of anxiety, etc... Second, Marijuana causes a lot of adiction. This adiction makes the people need to consume it everytime.If people have no money to buy it, the people fall in a state or anxiety causing problems like commit crimes or robberies to get some money. Finally, legalisation of Marijuana might makebad effects on children because these would grow up considering to the Marijuana like a  normal substance to consume like alcohol and tobacco. The Marijuana will ruin their lifes and their healths. These reasons seem logical because they are supported by recent studies that indicate that the Marijuana is a drug as dangerous as other (cocain, heroin, etc...) because they damage our healths, cause adiction and get the people commit crimes, robberies, etc...
  
	In contrast, there are another people that argue the legalisation of Marijuana should be allowed but it must be used for determinated finalities. Legalisation of Marijuana should be allowed to medical finality to cure illnesses, to relieve pains, etc... These people also argue that Marijuana should be legalised for particular consume but each person have to have a control to  not lose the knowledge and to not do things that can be dangerous to the rest of the population. This control is imposible to get because people have no control about theirself when they have take drugs. The first reason is more logical than the rest because a recent study indicates that the Marijuana has a beneficial character in determinated illnesses and pains. But, Marijuana has a perjudicial character when it is smoked. It damages the lungs and it causes loss of memory, etc...   

	To sum up, legalisation of Marijuana is a big decision that causes a lot of opinios among people. Some people are for the legalisation of Marijuana, other are against and the rest of the people think that the Marijuana has good things and bad things like everything of the world. Principally, the most of the people believe that Marijuana shouldn't be legalised because it is a drug. It is bad, it damages the people's health and it causes adiction. However, other people believe that legalisation of Marijuana should be allowed because it is like tobacco and alcohol and these are allowed by the governments. These are legalised. On balance, the legalisatin of Marijuana is a bad idea because it can be the beginning of a society where most of people would feel the temptation to  consume drugs and this would be a catastrophe.



















