

	In the world there are a lot of people who are different by their races, cultures or sexual tendencies. This last difference is the most important of all. Normally, women love men and viceversa, but it isn't always like that. Also there are people who love people of the same sex for example, men who love another men. These people are so-called gay people. Gay people exist since the beginning of time in all civilizations. They have been punished and they have suffered from a lot of sufferings during long time especially, in the Middle Age. An example is the Inquisithion that prosecuted gay people because they thought in another way and they had different sexual preferences. Nowadays, gay people have problems but they are fewer because, the society is fighting against the social impediments. I think gay people have right to get married and adopt children like the heterosexual people.

	First, I believe gay people are normal as the rest of the people. I think that a couple must consist of two people who are in love and they respect. I think that the society is wrong because it thinks that a couple must be consisted of  a woman and a man. But I think that it is incorrect. This concept of couple is an idea that was established by the Religion. It is something that has been ordered us and it can't be questioned. However, there are people who think that gay people are inmoral. Normally, the majority of these are religious and they have based their lifes on religious thoughts. These people are very intolerant and they don't do anything to finish the problems that gay people suffer. However, I believe that this intolerant thought, that the religious people have, is very incorrect because, gay people disturb nobody. They live their lifes beacuse, they want to be happy.

	Second, I believe that gay people have to have option to get married as heterosexual couples. I think this idea is very good because, all people, who are in love, wish  to get married. Nowadays, the Spanish government and the Dutch government have fought to create a new law that allows  gay people  can get married. This has created a lot of problems with the Church because, the Church doesn't allow to create this law. But finally, the law has been established in Spain and Holland. However, I think that this problem will finish because, the most of people are fighting against the Church. The public opinion and popular power will finish convincing to the church that is wrong.

	Finally, In my view, I think gay people have to have option to adopt children. I think the biggest wish of a couple, who is in love, is to have children. Normally, heterosexual couples have their children biologically or they can adopt children. I believe that gay people must have this right to be happy like heterosexual couples. However, a percentage of population think this is inmoral because, they believe that children must be educated on a correct way. These children must have one mother (woman) and one father (man). However, I think the children who are adopted by gay couple can be educated on the same way that the rest of the children. The main point for the couples can adopt children is that the people, who make up the couple, respect.
	
	To sum up, nowadays, heterosexual couples have right to get married but they can't adopt children. From my point of view, the last point is something that must be allowed because homosexual couples will be happier. I think everybody should fight to stop the problems that gay people suffer. We must convince to the Church for this admits the  marriage and the adoption of gay people.








