


In our present society, violence in class is something that unfortunately occurs every day in any secondary school. Nowadays, being teacher of secondary can be something dangerous apart from stressful. Often, we can see on TV or in the newspapers news about this kind of violence which concern teachers and in many cases also concern students. There are a lot of boys and girls who only go to class to disturb and threaten other students and teacher, and in some cases, this has finished in death and suicides. I think this is a serious problem which must be resolved as soon as possible. In this essay I will try to explain this problem and give some possible solutions.

From my point of view, children violence in class is a very serious problem which is increasing more and more in all schools. There are many gays about 15 and 16 years old who don't want to study because they don't mind their future life. They go to class and the only thing they do is desturbing. In many cases these groups of bad children threaten and even hit other students. An example of this could be, some years ago, the suicide of a spanish boy who was depressed because of the pursuit of his classmates. He was persued everyday and he couldn't bear this situation. Besides, he was alone, nobody helped him and even after his death, government has done nothing to punish the guilties. Because of they are under 18, the punishment they recieved is very minor, so they follow with the same bad behaviour. In the case of this spanish boy, law made nothing with the real guilties (who were his classmates) so I suppose they will be doing the same things with other children. But students are not the only victims of this situation. A lot of secondary teachers are not allowed to teach their lessons. They can't explain because these students always  disturb, they shout, they play in class and even they hit them. A recent study says that 30% of secondary teachers have recieved any threaten or agression. Because of this, teachers get depressed and they are afraid to come back to class. The situation of teachers, in many cases, is similar to children's. They are alone, and nobody can defend them. I strongly believe that the most important problem of all this are the parents of these problematic children. When teachers want speak with their parents to try to avoid and resolve the problems, they don't hear them and don't believe what teachers say. They only believe in what their children state. There is another kind of parents behaviour which don't mind what their children do, and they know nothing about what they used to do.

Some people would say that teachers exaggerate everything and it is not a serious problem because the most of children at the age of 16 are difficult, however I am of the opinion that we must treat this problem seriously because If we don't give importance, this problem will increase in the future.

In conclusion, in this essay I've tried to explain this present problem and its effects. Some possible solutions could be a change in the law because I think that it is not efficient enough to solve the problem. Children and teachers must be protected if they are in this horrible situation because if they feel alone they get depressed and they can finish with their lives. We must finish with violence in class. For this, we have to help them because they need protection.
