In modern times, abortion has always been a discussion subject which is split in two different points of view, people who is for abortion and people who don't agree with it. Actually, it seems to be that abortion is not something so inmoral like some years ago it was. People think that this is something normal and in many cases it is necessary but, for different reasons, not everybody agree's with this opinion because there are still many asociations and collectives which are fighting to get people realise that this is something unacceptable and they are trying to finish with this. Each point of view has many interesting reasons to support it. In this essay I will try to explain these different  arguments which separates our society. 

We can find people who give many reasons to accept abortion. They agree with it because in many cases it is necessary. An example of this might be a woman who has been violated. They think that  in this situation the woman could abort because she has been abused and she could not be able to look after her children, she would not be happy. One of the main reasons they give in favour abortion is in a situacion of danger or illness. When a pregnancy can be dangerous for mother's life, it would not be reasonable to follow with it. Also in some cases is the baby who has problems because he has any illness, they say that he would suffer in life and this is no good for anybody. Another argument would be economic problems. There are many families which don't have enough money to support children so they would decide not to have the baby they would be waiting for. In some cases girls who are fiveteen or sixteen years old are pregnant, their parent think that she has not matured  and she wouldn't be able to have the baby. All these reasons  are thought by a big number  of spanish people and it seems to be that this opinion is increasing more and more in our present society.

However, there are people who don't think like this. It appears to be that some people are totally against abortion. This opinion is thought and supported by less people but it has also some arguments to explain. Their main argument about this is that abortion is something inmoral because we can not finish with someone's life when we want. They think that this is a murder and it should be punished. The Church is the most important defence of this idea. It has been always against this. In spite of all the reasonable arguments given by people who is for abortion, they say that the most important thing is life and man can not finish with it because the only one who can do this is God.

Some people would argue, on the one hand, that abortion is good and necessary in some cases like for example violations or illness but on the other hand they suggest that if there is no an important cause, abortion  shouldn't be allowed.

It seems reasonable to argue that in some extremely cases, woman have to abort because if they haven't, it would have worse consequences. But possibly there are other situations in which  is not so necessary finish with foetu's life.

In conclusion, I have tried to explain the different arguments and points of view which concern to abortion. It appears to be that the two opinions have reasonable causes to support their way of thinking. It seems to be that it is a subjective question which will be very difficult to resolve because both ideas have important and suggestions.





