



Anorexia has always been considered as one of the most serious illness concerning young people. These days  with the Madrid Fashion Week, celebrated some weeks ago, this question is being dealt more than ever. We could see on TV that models were very thin, so many associations against anorexia complained about it. TV programmes and newspapers have realised of this problem. They have informed us about the illness and like associations, they also have complained. In this essay I will try to explain the problem of anorexia and how it influences in fashion world and models.

From my point of view, anorexia is an illness which should be resolved by government. Anorexia is a problem in the feeding which normally appears in teenagers about fourteen and eigthteen years old. They are afraid getting fat, so they stop eating. Actually any teenager (specially girls) don't want to become fat. I think that fashion world is one of the facts that influences in this situation. Many people think that models have the perfect body which everybody should have. Young girls watch on TV models that have fame thanks to their bodies so girls would like to be like them. But they don't know that organizers put pressure on them. When a model have to parade, she can not eat because if she gets fat, she could be dismissed and she would loose her job forever. Because of this models are afraid of this and they don't feed. I strongly believe that this is no good and this should be punished because playing with model's health is something very serious. An example of this should be the celebration of Madrid Fashion Week. Many TV programmes realised that models were too thin, so they complained about this. Many models were interviewed and jounalists asked them about their wealth and height. One of these girls answered that her wealth was 58 Kg and her height 1.80 m. Associations alarmed because they say that a person with these phisical characteristics should be in the hospital. It seems to me that models say that they are not pressured because if they do, they are not allowed to parade. Even, many of them don't accept their anorexia so we have to help them and finish with this situation. They must be able to recognized their illness but this is no easy for them because in many cases they are alone and they don't have any help.

Many people of fashion world say that all this is not true. They affirm that models have a good health and they are not too thin like associations would argue. I think that they say this because all this is a bussines and they can not say the truth because they would loose money and they would have problems. These people also were interviewed and they said that all models used number 38 in their jeans. But I'm of the opinion that models are very thin and they have used smaller sizes.

In conclusion, I have tried to explain the problem of anorexia in models which is increasing every year. I think that government should help models and not allow that this problem continue because it has influences in young people that want to be like girls who are on TV. I strongly believe that people who force models must be punished and imprisioned. We must fight against this illness and finish with it as soon as possible.




