
These days, we are suffering a new law which is separating our 
society basically in two different points of view. With this new  anti-
smoking law, people who smoke are not allowed to do it in public 
places like for example the tube, the train, in some bars and 
restaurants and even in their work places, so if they want to smoke, 
they have to do it in the street. This law is creating a bad situation 
between smoker people. In this essay, I will try to explain the main 
different arguments concerning this new law.   

There are many people who think that this law is a good solution to 
finish with tobacco because if they can't smoke in restaurants or in 
their own work, they will decide stop smoking forever, because of 
this, they will feel better because they will have a good health. Also, 
no-smoker people could breathe better without any smoke. There are 
other people who agree with the law, this people are workers of 
restaurants and bars: they have decided that in their bars, smoke 
people are allowed to smoke, so people who smoke will go there and 
will enjoy their cigarettes, and this mean that they will have an 
increase in their profits. Other people, however, is agree with the law 
but not totally; they say that it's a good idea, but it should be more 
restrictive. They think that buy tobacco should be forbidden 
everywhere, and with this, people would stop smoking obligatory. 
An example of this could be Ireland where actually, nobody is 
allowed to smoke.

Other people would argue that this law have no sense. One of the 
purpose of the government whit the new law is try to make that 
people stop smoking, but against this idea people say that they like 
smoking and that there are other problems more important to resolve, 
like for example terrorism or inmigration. They think that if it's a 
solution to avoid more death then, they should forbide many others 
things like driving or drinking alcohol because these are causes of 
death too. They think that this anti-smoking law is not the solution, 
even some of them say that they will follow smoking everywhere. In 
contrast with people who work in restaurants, there're a sector which 
is against. This sector is people who has kiosks, because since the 
last 1st January, they can't sell tobacco, so, they are suffering an 
important damage in their business.

Some people would argue, on the one hand that this law is a perfect 
idea to finish with tabacco and it's a law which finally would benefit 
everybody. But, on the other hand , many people say that this is an 
useless decision because they will follow smoking althought it's 
forbidden in a lot of places.

It appears to be that this law is separating our society in two different 
opinions and in two different sectors: smoker and no-smoker people. 
It seems reasonable to say that this law is not fair, because a smoker 
person has his right to smoke everywhere, but really this law could 
help smoker people to leave it forever.








