				I think that the new points system for driving could be very good,because now there are many people that aren't conscious that holding a car is a real danger.Moreover this form to driving offerences is having greats results in others countries.																	It is a penal system that has given excellent results because has reduced the accident rate in:France,Germany,England or Italy.The drivers get certain points that they will lose some of them when they commit faults.	Novice drivers that have the driving licence for less than three years will obtain points and the other drivers will obtain twelve points. When this do a negligence or a criminal negligence they will lose some points that can be between 2 points to 6 points. When we are penalized we can recover this with formatives courses and also if we no commit negligences for three years.Because of using the mobile phone or don't wear safety belt will minimize ours marks.																					Despite the fact that this new driving licence is very beneficial is not enough. Since is necessary  take complementary measures, it could be very useful that the children had programmes of education about education about danger of roat in order to the children are conscious since young because young people are the biggest offenders in the roads.When we are driving we think that the accidents only happen to others people but it can pass as and a bad manoeuvre may be our death.										Those who are in favour of a reckless driving because they love the speed ,or that they drive though they have consumed drugs,or alcohol or other substance that make that drivers aren't very concentrated in the road.Please is a very significant thing . Don't take it as a joke!Thinking about if your parents,sisters,brothers,sons,etc are run over. The car can be very useful but also it is too dangerous. It's important know that the road is used by a lot of people and we can not do all that we would like because there very much people that can be damage.									 I ask myself why manufactures make cars that may run 300km/h. In my opinion run with this speed is very very very dangerous!! I think that people can't go so quickly!!why do the manufactures make this cars? I don't know if someone can answer my question.								In conclusion I agree with the points system  for driving offers because if there are people that can't be qualified to driving, other people don't have to suffer their consequence. Furthermore this new driving licence is more effective that the last because with this although you have a lot of money you can lose your licence	because you an lose all the points. Now there are points moreover the fines.		
