
A controversial topic is the recently implanted anti-smoking law. The main points of this law are: Firstly the impossibility of selling tobacco in non specific places such a tobacconist or machines. Furthermore, it's necessary to be over eighteen in order to buy tobacco. It's also a relevant measure that to stay in a place where smoking is allowed it's necessary to be over sixteen. About where it's possible to smoke the new law establishes that spare time places, for example restaurants, have to decided whether smoking is allowed or not if the places is under 100 square metres however if the places is over 100 squares meters it's possible to do a separation between smokers and non smokers places. However it's banned to smoke in work places. Not acting accorder to this new law would cost paying high fines. All these measures are supposed to have been taken in order to reduce illness related with tobacco. This essay is trying to explain the different reactions to this new law and its possible consequences.

On the one hand, lot of people, mainly smokers, claim that the law is too strong .For example, not allowing people to smoke is cutting smokers' freedom, they appeal to smokers' education and common sense in order to not disturb anyone. It is also added that tobacco taxes are an important source of money for the government. Furthermore, smokers feels that they are out from society just because the smoke.   Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive it has certain weaknesses. For example, it seems to be truth that the smoker should notice by himself when can smoke and went not, but this is not what usually happens.

On the other hand, some people believe that the law is not hard enough. For example, the most places which have to choose if smoking is possible inside or not, have  mainly  decide to allowed smoking so as a result this new measures are doing nothing. It seems reasonable to argue that if anyone decide not smoking should not be disturb with the others smoke; being a passive is smoker is quite harmful as recent studies have point out. This seems a logical argument because if smoking is a personal decision needs to be respected however this idea could be a supporting for allowing people to smoke.

Between this opposites points of view it's possible to find some people who feel that although it is not very pleasant to be eating while other one is smoking, for example. The restrictions should not be so hard, but it is necessary to take into consideration that the non-smokers' rights should be also respected. So, the general view is that it should be better re-educate people and give more facilities to give up smoking rather than banned people to smoke where they used to. This seems a logical argument, because it appeals to respect between both parts and also to educational instead of oppressive measures. This would imply that the government and associations should expend more money teaching why is unhealthy smoking than punishing people for doing it.

In conclusion, this paper has focused on how the law has change smokers' habits and the different reactions that all those measures which would like to decrease the number of smokers, have taken place in Spanish society. The main points of view which have been pointed out are the ones who thinks that the law is toot hard, the ones who believed that the law is too soft, and the ones who might prefer other kind of measures, instead of restrictive ones. 
 
