

A controversial topic nowadays is the "gay marriage". Spain has recently approved a new law in which gay people not only can get married but also adopt children. This has caused lots of different reactions in society. On the one hand lots of people were looking forward to it, while others have expressed their disagreement with this new situation. In this essay, I will try to explain why in my opinion gay people should not only be allowed to get married but also to adopt children. 

To begin with I would like to explain why gay people should get married according to my point of view. Marriage is a state in which legal and social advantages are gotten; such as being able to get a widow's pension, or his or her partner can keep the house in which they both were living. Furthermore, it is a social recognition which would normalise in a way homosexual couples. Some people may argue that marriage it is only possible between a men and a woman. To support this affirmation religion ideas are added, such as the Holly book in Catholic religion punishes homosexuality. It is also said that ethimologically "marriage" which comes from the Latin, cannot be used to call this homosexual unions. 
 
However, I would like to emphasize that marriage can't necessary be related with any religion, so as anyone one can have a civil marriage and being able to have the same civil and social rights as a couple which has been married by an specific religious ceremony. The terminology problem is quite complex. Although in a strictest semantic way this seems to be truth, I do not personally think that these unions should be called with an other word. Apart from the fact that the majority of people has no idea about where this word came from and those specific knowledge about its firstly meaning. Using an other word could be discriminatory in a way, because if it is tried to get the same rights to everyone no matter its sexual option, why should not be adopted the traditional cultural term to called this unions? 

Other important matter of disagreements is if gay people should be allowed to adopt children. Some people feel that they should not be allowed for several reasons such as: children need a male and a female model in order to grow up properly. It is also added that growing up in a gay family could induce the children to be gay him or herself. However, I would say that these facts have not been scientifically proved. The thesis about the model necessity in children is quite sensitive. Psychologists explained that is necessary for them to have referents in order to understand better how the family and social relations work. Nevertheless, since the beginning of humanity has been children without mother or father and that not necessary denies them the possibility to have satisfactory social relations. Furthermore, nowadays children interact with friends teachers, males and females, and other members of the family. I do not mean with this that those persons can supply a mother or  a father , I just would like to point out that the children is not growing up isolated  only surrounded by his family. The children grow up inside a society, which offers several models. 

About the second thesis I would argue that this has no scientific fundament. It is true that the environment in which you grow up plays an important role on your personality development but it does not make you to be in a determinate way; to illustrate this I would like to share and example, thinking about the family in which the father work as a doctor does not necessary means that the son is a doctor also, it could be but it could be not. Probably, a children who has grown up with a guy couple would be more tolerant with collective, because since he or she has born it heir parents relation has been perceived as absolutely normal.  Furthermore I would add that it's better for the children  to grow up in an environment where is love, even if he has two   "fathers" or two "mothers", than with an alcoholic family with a "mother" an a " father" or in a orphanage. 

So then, this paper has focused the gay's rights of getting married and adopted children. The main ideas which have been covered are equality rights, for a homosexual and a heterosexual couple in both aspect. I have tried to explain why these collective not only is able to have the same rights but also must have the same ones as heterosexual couples. 










