


Nowadays, in Spain, traffic accidents are the fifth reason of death. Because that. Spanish government had pass the new points system that will be effective in 2006.
In this essay I intend to suggest that the new points system will make Spanish people drive better than now or at least will do that people to be afraid off the sanctions.

Young people have half of the traffic accidents. These are the first cause of death in people up to 29 years old. And in the lot of cases (30-50%) the drivers were drunk. 
I think that young people have to realise that having a car is not a game and with the points system they will be afraid to lose his points and they will be careful when they drive. If you drive drunk you will lose 6 points and the inexperienced drivers only have 8 points, if they only have 2 points, I think they will not drive drunk again. And not only to inexpert drivers but to all drivers, if you lose 6 point, you have 6 points for all your life and only increase if you don't do any offence, so lot of people would think better after to drive drunk. 

Spain is the second European country, after Portugal, with more traffic accidents. In my opinion these accidents will decrease with this method . The department of the interior had said that they would give out information about the new points system and leaflets of road awareness. This is other of the advantages of this system; the future drivers will see videos and will do courses in the school driving. Schools driving will make aware people to obey the laws.  It can be that next 10 years the law don't work out but I think that in the future when the drivers had lose points, they won't do the same offences, and if they want to recover his points they have to have a course about road education and they will have to pay for do this course. People who had lose his points or some point can do this course, but only one course in two years. 

At last, I have to say that United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Luxembourg have a similar points system. In these countries the points system had reduced the offences and the disasters of traffic accidents. For example in France the traffic accidents for alcohol consumption had decrease by 6%, traffic accidents had been reduced by 20%, recidivist drivers by 75%, deaths had decrease by 17%. And I suppose that in Spain will be like this. It is believed that this initiative would reduce the number of death for traffic accident up to 10%, that involve avoid among 150 and 500 deceases per year. A similar points system was passed in 1982 in United Kingdom, and now, is the European country with less number of deceases for million of kilometres travelled. 

So then, we have seen that there are too much traffic accidents and we have to avoid this. I think if we are all aware of the problem, it will be very easy to decrease the number of accidents and broken families. And overcoat the young people, we have to understand that driving fast is not funny, but very dangerous. We only have to obey the laws, but this society works in this way, first to forbid, and after that people start to obey. I think driving in Spain is going to change, at least I wish it. 
