
The bigger a city becomes, the bigger the problems that we can find in it. Madrid has experienced a large growth in the past years both in economy and population, because of that, the number of cars and similar types of transport has also increased .Spain's capital is, as a matter of fact, turning into one of Europe's most consistent and important cities. In the past, cities as London, Roma or Paris , to name some,  had much greater importance in the continent.

Because of that, the Spanish government is spending large amounts of money in order  that Madrid can obtain infrastructures at the same level to compete with other important cities. As a result, many of the new constructions that are taking place in our city are making difficult both private and public transport. We can see how public transports are often made to change their itineraries because of the restrictions made for the new buildings, roads etc. Traffic jams are sort of a common thing in the city; normally we find them when people go to work or when they are returning from it. Jams are also found near the middle of the Madrid, this is because it is a place in which constructions and public commercial places co-exist.

One of the problems that we can also find as a result of the immense amount of traffic in the city is pollution. If we go out of the city and look at its landscape we probably can't see very well but the silhouette of the buildings alone. In order to help the environment , Madrid has to restrict the use of transport and make more green places so that pollution can be healed or  eradicated.

After the failure of 'Europe's day without cars` , we saw that big cities such as Madrid are not prepared to let aside this vehicles.
The city council suggested different methods in order to palliate the problems given because of the conflictive traffic. One of the methods that I found quite interesting was the 'Teleparking`, it negotiates the interchange or reciprocation of garage places between people of the city. The user gives their name, address, phone number so that if any problem occurs they can contact them. They must also provide information such as how much time they are going to have the car in that place and the reason if it is suitable.

This solution was introduced in a small scale in Madrid but most people ignored it. People still fight to get a place in which they can put their cars.

Another problem is that people tend to put their cars in places such as the second parking line which makes difficult to other vehicles to pass through the street for example. The solution that was given by a local company was to put some stickers in this cars .In the sticker we can read 'If my car makes any inconvenience or disturbance call to this free phone number` so that the user of the car can be called in order to remove their car as quickly as possible .










From my personal point of view , people really don't bother or don't even try to apply this suggestions given, they prefer to try it by their own, causing much more damage. I think that there are too much cars in the city and not enough parking slots for everyone , the city council must do something to help , either by doing restrictions or by doing more parking places .

Madrid is a wonderful city that probably has as its main problem the large amount of constructions that are taking place at the time being. Given this, people must think of ways to make the city much more enjoyable, quieter and healthier. A city of which people will be proud to be in, the capital of Spain.
