
Over the last 40 years, the legal status of marijuana has been debated vigorously. Proponents of policies that would permit individual possession of small amounts of marijuana argue that it is a safe drug and that criminal sanctions against personal use and possession represent at worst excessively harsh and at best unnecessary penalties. On the other hand, it appears that smoked marijuana damages the brain, heart, lungs, and immune system. It impairs learning and interferes with memory, perception, and judgment. There are different types of views concerning this topic, some of them which are completely opposite.

A recent study by the British Medical Association indicates that marijuana can relieve certain types of pain, nausea, vomiting and other symptoms caused by such illnesses as multiple sclerosis. Doctor Joycelyn Elders states that clearly shows that marijuana has been accepted as capable of relieving the distress of great numbers of very ill people with safety under medical supervision. In a survey carried out last year in Europe, over 64 % of the interviewed considered the legalisation of marijuana as a good thing for society. One of the main arguments in favour is that Police and court resources would be freed up for more serious crimes because drug disputes would be reduced. It is believed that it could also be a source of additional tax revenues and the general feeling among the economist is that it could be a good addition for the market.

There are also many people who think completely opposite as the statements above. The latest poll figures show that more than half the adult population thinks that the legalisation of marijuana will be harmful for their children. It is apparently true that marijuana is often used as a stepping-stone drug, leading to heroin, cocaine, or other harder drugs. According to the California Narcotics Officers Association, marijuana is an unstable mixture of over 400 chemicals including many toxic psychoactive chemicals which are largely unstudied and appear in uncontrolled strengths. Some people would argue that the legalization would increase the chances of the drug falling into the hands of kids. Some researchers say that physical damage would be done to users that abuse the drug.
The vast majority of the people interviewed quoted that they had to know the case in order to give a certain judgement of the legalization. It is widely accepted that marijuana can help certain types of diseases or minor injuries but it's also known as a stepping-stone drug. The general feeling among the experts indicates that marijuana will always have someone in favour or against. Young people don't want to over praise in this topic, even though marijuana is a known substance in their live. They seem to think that legalization would bring good and bad things, and they are not capable to choose from.

It seems reasonable to consider that some marijuana properties are beneficial for health and can relieve pain, but it has also to be taken into account that the exposure to this type of drug might be a link to other drugs such as cocaine or heroin. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. It might start as a remedy but could become an addictiveness, and turn up to be harmful for the human being. It could be considered as a stepping-stone drug, but studies indicate that if the legalization takes place, the quality and safety of drugs could be regulated and make them even less addictive. Some of the evidence shows that the people who use marijuana as a substance to heal their injuries become unstable and can be addicted to other drugs rather easily.
Although there are many different opinions on this particular topic, the general feeling is that the legalization of marijuana would bring major changes in everyone's lives; the economy would be affected greatly as a new item would be added to the market. People will always argue on this topic, because some consider this substance as a remedy for their diseases and the other part thinks of it as a harmful drug that could eventually become an addiction. The debate is settled.


