



For centuries imprisonment had been seen as the most effective punishment to 
offenders. Throughout history prisons have  become part of history ,as Le Bastille as an 
emblem of French Revolution, or famous  as Alcatraz. But nowadays the elevated rates 
of crime which involves societies, the insecurity within the prisons and many other 
factors make people question if imprisonment is really effective or if it is the best way 
to punish criminals. Governments keep on thinking that imprisonment is the most 
effective way of punishment and they invest more and more money building more 
prisons. However like statistics show in some countries instead of decline crime rates it 
increases because of the recidivism. As David Waddington, home secretary in Margaret 
Thatcher's government, says <Q> 
In this essay, I would try to show how, in my opinion, imprisonment is not really 
effective.

From my point of view, prison is not effective because it is used as a deterrent measure. 
The threat of prison as punishment does not work for the majority of violent offenders 
who has been there. Long prison terms are likely to be more impressive to lawmakers 
than lawbreakers. The report of the National Academy of Sciences claims that a 50 
percent increase in the probability of incarceration prevents about twice as much violent 
crime as 50 percent increase in the average term of incarceration.<R> 
Additionally, recidivism is constant in violent offenders. A data from Open Society 
shows that re-arrested rate is 63% as a whole and 54% for juveniles. Recidivism 
demonstrates that the threat of prison does not work in offenders who have been in 
prison for a long time.

It could be argue that crime in United States has declined because of the threat of 
prison. Murray in his paper <R> concludes that the crime reduction in 
United States is a direct result of the policy of imprisonment which has both a 
deterrence effect and an incapacitation effect. He also believes that offenders should be 
incarcerated even <Q> <R>.However, it seems to me that there are other factors which explain the declination of 
crime rate: a strong economy and unemployment, a decline in the drug markets, 
increased low enforcement budgets, increased adoption of community policing 
strategies. 
Additionally, prison is an effective means of prevention of crime for those people who 
are afraid of prison, but it does not work for those who are not afraid of it. What works 
in such cases is not "prison" itself but the fear of going to prison. And in such case, fear 
of any punishment, which is seen as harsh enough to be afraid of, will have the same or 
even a greater effect. Moreover, same crimes are committed by people, who, although 
normally are afraid of prison, at the time of the commission of the crime, lose the fear. 
This could be due to alcoholic intoxication, excessive emotions, or a belief that they 
will be not "caught". 
In addition to this, neither pathological criminals whose behaviour is abnormal in the 
sense of having abnormal desires, which they seek to satisfy at any cost and it is 
difficult to explain in rational terms, nor habitual criminals who see prison as a normal 
part of their life, are deterred by the threat of prison. In my opinion, prison is not 
effective to prevent crime, what is effective is the fear of prison as punishment.

Furthermore, I think that imprisonment is not effective because overcrowding. 
Governments tend to think that with the incarceration of all the offenders, no matter 
what kind of offence they had committed, the crime rate will decline. But <Q> <R>
Moreover the policies of the government of United States keep on promoting the rise of 
population in prisons all over the country, this population reaches a new maximum of 
2,2 millions in 2003.<R>
However, in my opinion, if incarceration rises, budgets shrink and this leads to prisons 
understaffing and also leads to the early release of dangerous criminals who frequently 
commit new offences. In addition, for many parties, the most important thing is to spend 
more and more, building more prisons. But I believe the solution is not incarcerated 
more and more people which provokes overcrowding.

However, many people could argue that overcrowding is a consequence of punish 
offenders, because imprison criminals is the only way in which they receive the just 
punishment for their crime. But from my point of view, imprisonment is not effective 
for non-violent criminals because prison often contributes to spread crime specially 
among young people who are the majority of prison population. It is not uncommon for 
youngsters having committed a criminal act through lack of discipline and 
thoughtlessness are been sent to prison, to come out as hardened habitual criminals. 
These also occurs with other types of non-violent criminals. For these offenders who are 
not dangerous his first priority in prison, is to learn to survive. They must learn to 
survive because they are in contact with dangerous and violent criminals (violation is 
very common between inmates within prisons). <Q> <R>

It could be argue that they are in prison because they have committed a crime and they 
must pay for it, if the environment is not "idilic" is the price that they have to pay for 
they offences. Additionally, other people argue that in prison the inmates do not live 
under conditions because prisoners can watch T.V., eat a meal use exercise equipment, 
etc... <Q> <R> But I think these 
"idilic" conditions does not exits in all the prisons. As many reports show, inmates are 
stripped of possessions and privacy and they are exposed to constant threats of violence,  
their cell-block are overcrowded and they are deprived of meaningful work. The result 
of these, from my point of view, is an embittered people want to pay back the society 
which condemn them, the damage they had suffered. <Q> <R> In my opinion, overcrowding is both inhumane to the 
inmates and dangerous to the prison staff. When you put a lot of people, specially 
criminals, in close quarters, tension rise and the chance of a riot increases. So I think 
only those offenders who pose real danger to the public people, should be sent to jail.
The most important reason, from my point of view, is that in prisons there is not 
rehabilitation for the criminals because there are not appropriate education and 
rehabilitation programs. Most of the population of prisons, as I said before, is young 
non-violent offenders. Moreover this population is relatively illiterate compared with 
the population as a whole. A lot of researches have demonstrated that the most effective 
way to reduce offending, and particularly re-offending is through education. According 
to the United States Bureau of Justice inmates with at least two year college education 
have a 10% re-arrested rate, compared to the national re-arrested rate of 62% <R>
However, people could argue that in prison there are education programs, they have 
libraries, etc...To sum up, they could argue that in prison inmates can study an receive 
an education. But in my opinion, prisons do not provide the appropriate education. In 
United Kingdom the Adult learning Inspectorate reports <Q> <R>

Additionally, I believe that apart from education there are other ways to rehabilitate 
non-violent offenders without sending them to prison. These alternative rehabilitation 
programs can be: community service, probation ,electronic tagging, etc... In addition 
drug-treatments programs are more useful than prison in drug-related sentences: <Q> <R>
 Intensive supervision is one of these drug-treatment programs and it is perform with 
much success in Milwaukee. This program consists in confine the offenders in their 
homes during the hours when they are often subject of drug-testing, but they remain 
members of society. Also restitution is a very effective rehabilitation program, which 
consists in giving to the criminal a job and must relinquish his or her earnings to the 
victim of their crime until the mental and physical damage of their victims are sufficed. 
Of course, It could be argue that using restitution as an alternative to prison , the 
offenders do not pay their crime because they do not leave their freedom, which is the 
most precious possession a person could have. Without freedom criminals are punished 
and they can reflect their crime and its consequence.
However, It seems to me that if criminals are in prison, they can not see the real 
consequences of their crime. Restitution permits the criminals, to be in contact with 
their victims and allows them to understand and deal with the real consequences of their 
actions. Personally speaking, rehabilitation programs also contribute to reduce 
overcrowding because the number of inmates is reduce sending not violent criminals to 
rehabilitation  programs and sending them to prison .

To sum up, I think that imprisonment is not really effective for three reasons mainly. 
First, prison is not a deterrent measure for offenders. Second, the overcrowding of 
prison which encourages violence because of the mixture of violent and non-violent 
offenders. Finally, elevated rates of recidivism shows that there is no rehabilitation of 
the offenders. I believe that if the legal system continues promoting the imprisonment as 
the only way of punishment, the situation in the prison will become worse and 
overcrowding and violence will increase and will make the rehabilitation a difficult 
task. For these reasons, in my opinion, education and rehabilitation programs must be 
considered the first option in non-violent crimes.  

















