

Throughout history the family has experimented a lot of changes. The traditional family 
formed by a couple with their own children that share dwelling and divide work by 
gender, the woman works inside home and the man works outside home <R> , is not the only one today. Nowadays according Hare & Gray  
we can find different types of families:  Married nuclear family, both adults are the  
parents of the children. Cohabiting family, a couple who is not married and live in the 
same dwelling with their children. Single-parent family, there is "only one parent in the 
home". Blended family and stepfamily, it is created by remarriage and children are not 
biological related. Homosexual family, one homosexual single parent or two 
homosexual adults rear the children. And Commuter family, <Q>. Although there are different kind of household, the increase of 
single parent families, in 2005 the number of single parent families in Spain is 349,000  
<R> has provoked an intensive debate among society about 
whether this kind of family is as appropriate  for children as the traditional family or 
not. For this reason, in these essay I will to present the different points of view about the 
situation of children living in a single parent family.

The main point which creates more disagreement among society is the kind of education  
that a single parent family can provide to children. Many people argues that  single 
parent households do not provide a proper education because children need two models, 
one masculine and one feminine, to develop as human beings. This opinion is closely 
related with a gender separation of the roles within the family. Many people believe that 
fathers provide more discipline than mothers and as Ronald Crews claims fathers are 
essential in the education of a child.<R> As many researches show the 
majority of the single parent households are headed by a woman, in Spain the 86% of 
single parents are women,<R> and a great number  of them are 
teenagers. Many people against single parents families argue that  this mothers are 
immature and they are not prepare to rear a child by their own and provide a proper 
education because they have not enough education and knowledge of the world. 
Although this argument appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness because it is 
base in the supposition that women do not have the capacity  to provide discipline and 
this fact suppose a discrimination against the women.

On the other hand many people claims that a single parent, man or woman, can provide 
as much love , compression and discipline than two parent. These people also think that 
education is not attached neither to the figure of the father nor the figure of the mother. 
According to Barbara Wurzel, single parents develop <Q> <R>  
Many people argue that teenage mothers learn to educate a child interacting by their 
own children, because interacting with them teenage mothers know which is the specific 
character of their children and how treat and rear them. Not only teenage mothers do 
that but also all the single parents promotes a close relationship between them and their 
children to know how they are. This emphasises an open communication between 
parents and children and helps the children to express their feelings in a better way. 
<R>  This argument appears more convincing because it is not based 
on any type of discrimination.
At this point there are opinions which seems to be neutral towards the single parent 
households. Many people believe that although children from two-parent households 
may have a more complete education because children have two different perspectives 
towards life, they have the perspective of two different people which think and feel in a 
different way, children living in  single parent families can have as good education as 
other kind of children because education does not depends on the number of the parents 
but also in the quality of the education of their parent. <R> This 
opinion seems to be logical because it is balance and it considers a wide range of 
perspectives.

People who consider that the environment of single parent households is not the 
appropriate to rear a child claims that single parents do not spend enough time with their 
children. They argue that single parents have to work outside home to earn money in 
order to sustain the family and this take time away from the time they could be with 
their children. This occur specially in the case of single mothers because they earn less 
money than men and they have to work long hours to get a salary which permit them 
sustain the family. Many people believe that children living in a single parent household 
are unsupervised and they do not have when they have a problem  the support of their 
parent because they is not at home. Some people feel that two-parent households 
provides more financial and emotional support because they have two people who can 
help them when they have a problem. Many people also believe that these children have 
to grow up quickly and for this reason they loose part of their childhood .They believe 
that learning how to care for themselves, they do not enjoy their childhood. These 
arguments seem to be logical but they have certain weaknesses because they are based 
on the quantity of time the parent spend with their children not in the quality of the time 
they spend together. These arguments do not consider that in the time which single 
parent and children spend together they can do the same things which two parents and 
their children do. Moreover they consider that single parent do not look after their 
children at all.

On the other hand Some people argue that single parents find balance between their 
work and their children, They spend all their free time with their children, making 
activities together and speaking about all the things has happened them through all the 
day. Single parents know better their children because they talk much time with them. 
As  Sandra Bailey asserts single parents <Q> <R> Many people also claim that children living in single parent families are 
more mature than children from two-parents households. These people argue that they 
have more responsibilities at home because their parent do not do everything for them. 
They collaborate more at home, help their parents doing houseworks , but above all they 
try not create more work to their parents. These children become more independent and 
responsible because their parents involve them in the family decisions and bear in mind 
the opinions of the children. Barbara Wurzel claims that single parents are <Q> These arguments seem to be 
logical  because show the real situations which lead to the maturity of these children. 
They show how single parents worry about their children and how the dialogue between 
parents are children is beneficial in all the aspects.

There are many people who consider that although single parents have to work long 
hours outside home and they do not pay attention to their children because they are not 
much time at home. But they also believe that in two-parent families this also can occur 
when the two parents work outside home. In these case these parents neither pay enough 
attention  to their children. Many people also argue that children living in  single parent 
households assume responsibilities quicker than children who live in two-parents 
families, because their parents are not always supervising them. But they believe that 
this is better than alone or unsupervised because giving them freedom to act they 
become more confident and they learn to confront life by their own. <R> These arguments seem to be persuasive because they consider different 
perspectives in the development of the children of single parent families.

People against single parent families claims that children living in these families have 
less self-esteem than the others: These people argue that these children has to deal with 
embarrassed questions about their family that they are difficult to answer for them. 
Moreover many people, above all children from two-parents families, do not consider 
single parent families as families. They believe that a family is the  one  in which two 
parents are biological related with the children. . These argument is not very persuasive 
because it do not take into account the different type of situations which can lead to a 
family which is different from the traditional one. But on the other hand many people 
argue  that  a family is not  formed by two parents and their children, a family is formed 
by people who love respect protect and care one to each other. This vision of the family 
makes  the children more tolerant towards all kind of  people. This argument seems to 
be logical because it is not based on the discrimination  and takes into account different 
situations and circumstances different from the norm. This argument promotes a 
tolerant vision about families, not only  about single parent families. Finally there are 
many people who argue that people who live in a non-traditional family can suffer 
misunderstanding outside the family because society tends to see traditional family as 
the norm. This occur because traditional family appears in television literature, etc...For 
this reason children may feel embarrassed but with <Q> <R> These people also say that children in some situations can feel bad but in 
this type of family they learn to become more tolerant towards things that are outside 
the norm. This argument seems to be persuasive because exalts positive ways of the 
different visions and  promotes a tolerant vision of the family.

In conclusion, we can see that there are different opinions about the single parent 
families. Some of them  are based on the traditional vision of the family and defend this 
type of family above other types. These opinions could be seen less logical because they 
consider that single parent families always are created by free choice and they do not 
take into account diversity. Others are based in a more tolerant vision of  family and 
single parents They seem to be more persuasive because they  consider the diversity of 
situations which can create a single family and the situations that a single parent may 
experience. Considering all the points of view  and the increase number of single parent 
family it might be more reasonable a tolerant attitude towards this type of family.




