

Marijuana or cannabis is an illegal drug  very popular among western society. Its 
consumption reaches its peak in the decades of 60's and 70's when the hippy culture 
spreads among society but nowadays consumption of marijuana seems to have 
recovered this "splendor". Many researches show that the consumption if marijuana 
among teenagers has increased in the last years. This fact has provoked a debate  about 
the legalization of this drug among society .Opinions in favour and against the 
legalization of marijuana, based on political, economical, medical or social reasons, 
emerge among different sectors of society: doctors ,teachers politicians, etc...... For 
this reason in this essay I will try to present different opinions about the legalization of 
marijuana and express my personal opinion towards them.

One argument in favour of the legalization of marijuana is that legalizing it there will be 
more safety for consumers. As Brian Mickelthwait says : <Q> <R> I am agree with this argument because in my 
opinion  if marijuana is legalized the product in the market  would be controlled and in 
this way the consumers would have the certainty that they are consumed a pure product 
which it has not been altered and also because there would be places where people 
could buy and consume marijuana which would guarantee the physical safety of 
consumers.. Moreover as Mickelthwait claims the legalization of drugs would reduce 
organised crime <Q> <R>.  I am 
also agree with him because, in my opinion, if  marijuana market is legalized the money 
produced by this market would belong to the State which  suppose more benefits for it.. 
The law  would regulate the purchase and the sale of marijuana so the different mafias 
would not  get rich and would not try to corrupt judges, policemen, government officials 
etc...
 

However many people claim that marijuana only must be legalized for personal 
consumption. According to Dirk Sampath <Q> <R>.  I think 
that this fact also could avoid trafficking and the black market. If people could cultivate 
their own marijuana they would not have to go to the streets to find it in the black 
market. The absence of buyers in the black market makes it disappear because it would 
not be necessary to get marijuana. The quantity of marijuana circulating in the black 
market would be higher than the necessary to cover the demand. This fact would 
provoke a collapse in the market since the pushers would lose money because they can  
sell all the marijuana they possessed and recuperate the money they have spend buying 
it. Moreover cultivating their own marijuana people would not meet with pushers which 
can provoke violent confrontations in then streets.

Many people claims that marijuana should be legalized because of medical reasons.  
These people argue that  marijuana <Q> <R>. Marijuana also <Q> <R>. However 
many people argues that smoking cannabis is dangerous  because cannabinoid drugs 
which is the active ingredient of marijuana act as quickly as cigarettes so any medical 
prescription should represent a perjudice for the patient. In my opinion the medical use 
of marijuana is the most important reason to legalized it. I think that the benefits that 
marijuana provokes in chronic and terminal patients are more important than the 
possible prejudices. If a person is going to die because of a terminal illness is not 
important that marijuana can produce bad effects because it is going to die with or 
without marijuana. I think that if marijuana can relieve the symptoms of the illness and 
a person can live its last day of  life in better conditions marijuana can be considered as 
a medical treatment so it can be legalized as other drugs are. It is demonstrated that 
marijuana is not addictive and it is not as dangerous as Prozac and Viagra <R> so 
I believe that if other drugs which are more addictive and have more prejudicial effects 
than marijuana  are used in medicine and they are considered legal, marijuana must be 
legal as well.

Many people against the legalization of marijuana claim that legalize marijuana suppose 
an increase  in its consumption . They argue that if people have free access to consume 
marijuana whenever they want and wherever they are they will consume more and more 
since there would not be nothing to restrict its consumption. They also argue that over 
all, teenagers would consume more or they can begin to consume it if they do not it 
before because they are more influenced by  friends and fashion tendencies. Moreover 
these people also argue that if marijuana were legalized , it could be harder to control 
the use of others drugs as heroin and cocaine which have more dangerous effects. They 
believe that allowing free consumption of one drug, people will believe that they can 
consume freely others drugs and their  use would spread among society. From my point 
of view these arguments are not very persuasive because they presuppose that  people 
would consume marijuana if they have free access to them. I think that people do not 
consume marijuana because they have free access to it. I believe that if people want to 
consume marijuana they are going to do it and if they do not want to consume it, they 
are not going to do it. In my opinion it does not depend on whether it is legalized or not 
because we can see that people could have access to marijuana although it is not legal. 
I also think that the consumption of marijuana does not involves the consumption of 
other drugs. In my opinion, if people want to consume heroin and cocaine, they will do 
although marijuana is not legalized. People consume  drugs independently from their 
legality,  people who consume heroin or cocaine they will continue consuming them 
although marijuana it is not legalized. It is the same that happens with marijuana, as I 
said before people will continue consuming it although it is not legal.

In conclusion, there are different opinions about the legalization of marijuana. Those  
one in favour of legalization  argues that this legalization is good for medical and social 
reason good. Those one against the legalization argue that it would foment the use of 
drugs. From my point of view, marijuana should be legalized because a lot of patients 
could relieve the symptoms of their illnesses using it. As I said before, I think that 
provide the better conditions for chronic and terminal patients is the most important 
reason to legalize marijuana because these people suffer a lot and they have the right to 
live in the best conditions. Moreover I believe that this fact would reduce corruption and 
violence in our society, because the mafia and the pushers surrounding this business 
would disappear. Finally, I  think that  our states could use the money earn with the 
taxes in social improvements like build more schools, hospitals, etc.... The debate about 
the legalization of marijuana is very present in society so I think that politicians should 
consider this issue in their political programmes.
 



