								

       In our present society the subject about human cloning is considered such as 
controversial issue among all positions and countries. Instead of being three different 
types of cloning, the basic word 'cloning' is used as a term to describe the process of 
create an identical copy of an original. Before start talking about the viewpoints of this 
topic is important to know the terms properly: firstly, is the well known 'embryo cloning' 
which consists basically on produce monozygotic (identical) twins or triplets with an 
identical DNA; secondly, 'adult DNA cloning' which is based on duplicate an existing animal 
and thirdly 'therapeutic cloning' which is used to create new and healthy organs with the 
person original's DNA. It could be considered by some people that human cloning is both 
acceptable and necessary in our society in order to have a healthier life than years ago 
had. But it should also be considered that, instead of being an advance that could cure a 
lot of serious illness, there are some communities such as religious ones which think that 
these processes are totally immoral and attempt to decay the human beings. Nowadays 
these procedures are forbidden in humans and they only can be made in animals. 
Therapeutic cloning is currently legal for research purposes in Britain and a law permits 
human cloning for the purpose of developing provided that the clone is aborted and used 
for medical research in New Jersey. There is also a mid point in which are those who are in 
favour of all types of human cloning only beyond the limits and in extreme circumstances. 
In this essay I am going to point out some of the main viewpoints including mine concerning 
human cloning.
       
       One of the main arguments often given to defend the human cloning is that this 
process is going to consent the medicine to create parts of the body free of illness for 
those people who are in need of them. Some people argue that, people who are 
convalescents and claim any organ to be alive more time have the right to go to aid of this 
form of cloning calls 'therapeutic cloning'. The liberal position said that: <Q> <R>. That is why to 
clone organs is considered as a satisfactory action since it makes the possibility of study 
much sickness without rejects directly into the patient's system. However, on the other 
hand, some conservative Christians think that, not only this cloning but also all kinds are a 
murder against human person considering a new life starts in a conventional conception 
process. Personally speaking, I strongly believe that therapeutic cloning is the most 
relevant and important one inside the world of human/animal cloning. According to Dr. 
Boisselier: <Q> <R>.  I think 
this method allows to create a healthy copy of a sick person's organ ready to be 
transplanted without neither any problems nor rejections from the patient's body, so 
seeing this, I disagree with these Christian organizations which say this is a crime whereas 
despite of be inadequate for health, is a technique which, from my point of view is going to 
save many lives in the future.
       
       Another important argument that can be pointed out by those in favour of human 
cloning is that people have the right to be free to choose whether create a new life or not. 
Those who are old, unable parents or homosexual could be happier if they could have 
children with their same genes. Randolfe Wicker, the founder of 'Clone Rights united 
Front' said: <Q> <R>. Contrary to this, it could be 
said that because of this, people will abandon sexual reproduction in favour of cloning and 
it will create new forms of family such as: joint custody of children after divorce, single 
motherhood and/or fatherhood, single-parent adoption, interracial adoption, homosexual 
parenting...From my point of view, these arguments given for be against cloning are 
nonsense because all of us should have the right to be parents. If we are not able, old 
enough or homosexual...why can we not be parents as well? These people who have risks can 
be as good parents as the rest and they are not choosing cloning as an easier way to breed 
but make their dreams come true.
       
       One of the most common arguments given by those who are against cloning is the 
feeling of 'Playing God'. Christians say that: <Q> <R>. For them, scientists create superior beings like in Frankenstein, but 
it is a wrong idea since Frankenstein created life from inanimate things and cloning creates 
life from life, is just an extension of in vitro procedures: <Q> <R>. Members of 
some religious groups, such as 'Evangelical Christianity' and 'Roman Catholicism' said that a 
soul enters in a person at the same time of conception and in that moment has already 
become in a human full of rights. Because of this, when a 'baby' is divided in more parts 
some clone zygotes die, that means for them a loos considered as serious as the death of a 
new born baby. Pope John Paul II commented to the 'International Congress on 
Transplants' in 2000 that: <Q> <R>. It 
seems to me that we can not leave all in God's hands because if we do this, we could never 
develop according to time. We must try, from my point of view, to advance and not to leave 
matters to nature. I think this cloning is not different from other reproductive 
technologies so is not harmful for anyone. Talking to superior beings, I think no one is 
going to use cloning to create 'something' for destroy the world. Cloning is not cheap and 
there are other methods (nuclear bombs, virus...) which provide of superior power to their 
creators.
       
       People argue that there is a word that appears in all the people's mind when we talk 
against this topic: risk. It is said that two important risks should make us to go against 
human cloning. They are: risks of health and emotional risks. A subsequent Time/CNN poll 
in 2001 found that: 90% of people felt cloning humans was a bad idea and 69% believe that 
human cloning is against God's will <R>. It seems that for these people, 
there are many disfigured and abnormal clones that have been either aborted or 
destroyed by the scientists worried about what they were creating. Contrary to this, 
people say that human cloning is not going to be working until all is right. Scientists are 
working hard nowadays in order to make this process more and more secure. The medicine 
is not exploiting people but is providing another chance for them instead of illness, 
despair, sadness...<Q> <R>. 
Referring to emotional risks people argue that clones will have a huge emotional pressure 
because of their feelings about their own identity and their knowledge of have been the 
replacement of another. <Q> <R>. 
Nevertheless it could be said that, in cases in which there are bad treatment in the 
familiar environment, orphaned children or a child who lives with any kind of abuse, exists 
more emotional disorders than in cloned children. Their supposed replacement is the same 
as if a couple decides to have another baby because of their child's death. Dr. Boisselier 
pointed out that: <Q> <R>.
       
       Personally speaking, these risks are in our daily life and in all kind of birth. There is 
always a factor of risk in a pregnancy and because of this I think yet there is not any 
resource to prove that is more tricky than another method of reproductive process. I also 
believe that medicine in general should study more about human cloning before starting to 
work on people. But this procedure occurs always in all the subjects during these 
centuries, since is necessary for the mankind to go on develop and on try to find some 
solutions to our problems of health. This topic is like all in life: neither no one borns 
knowing nor all the knowledge is known by anyone. And finally, talking about the emotional 
risks, I strongly believe that, being a cloned child is not a handicap for being happy and is 
not going to create problems for them. They only should have love in all around them as any 
child should have.
       
       Like in all topics there are also opinions less radical than the two ones explained 
before. It could be said that some people are not extremely against human cloning but are 
nearer of it. For them this technique is well seen if it is used with responsibility abd has 
the purpose to make a good action in something or someone. That means that, if an animal 
cloning suppose this animal is going to live 10 years and is going to feed up five children of 
an undeveloped country, these people say 'yes' to the method. The same if it is for an 
organ which is for a person who is in need of it. <Q> <R>. On the other hand, those who are extremely in 
favour say that cloning always is for a good act, never is going to caused a harmful feeling. 
It seems to me that, this viewpoint concerning human cloning is the most reasonable seeing 
that there are many atrocious people anxious of power who is able to abuse of it and the 
only thing that are going to make is play with innocent people's feelings.
       
       To sum up, we have seen that there are different arguments concerning human 
cloning. On the one hand we have seen that those in favour of human cloning group all their 
arguments and emphasize the two most important for them: the therapeutic function 
which allows to improve a person's health and the other one which is connected with the 
fact that not all the people can hold the parents' role because of any problem such as age, 
homosexuality, infertility.... On the other hand those who consider that human cloning is 
totally an act of an evil and goes against God's will. Finally, we find a middle point of view in 
where the only argument given by these people is that they want this technique to be used 
with responsibility and in a good way. Apart from all these subjective viewpoints, we have 
also seen my personal opinion and how I feel above all the arguments given. This topic 
seems not to have an easy solution in which all the viewpoints agree with, because instead 
of the majority of them want to use it as something good, there are those who think that 
all this kind of medicine is against nature.
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
