			
         In the past eight years, 39 students and teachers have been killed in public schools. Since the 
Columbine massacre in 1999, more than 40 boys, ages 10 to 13, have been arrested for conspiring to 
bomb their middle schools. In May, 17 years old attempted to slash another student's throat with a knife 
in the halls. Just 2 months later, in the same school, 2 teens attacked a police officer in the parking after a 
basketball game. It seems that, unfortunately, violence in children is a growing phenomenon in our 
present society. To prepare for it, one should first understand the factors that could lead to violent acts. In 
this essay, I will intend to argue that, in spite of being impossible to blame this tendency among children 
to one factor or even a set of several factors, the main reasons for this violence is affected by parents, 
teachers, television and video-games. I will also try to give some possible solutions to avoid it in its 
majority.
         It has been argued that children are not affected by the violence seen in their houses because 
after all, they do all well at school. Still, from my point of view, domestic or parental violence affects 
children too. However, it is true that maybe some children who suffer parental violence are good at 
school, but in my opinion, it is because is the only way to feel themselves safety. The school is the only 
place where they do not see violence and do not listen their parents' screams; they feel safe, comfortable 
and they can forget for hours everything that happens at home. Undoubtedly, this kind of behaviour is in 
only a minority part of the society. I would maintain that this type of violence affects on children both 
physically and psychologically. Victims of such abuse may release their stress in the form of violence in 
the classroom.
         Another factor that affects children talking about domestic violence is that many of them feel 
that they are not loved enough by their parents and their sadness and dissatisfaction is expressed through 
violence either at school or in all the places. Nevertheless, many people agree that the parents love their 
children so, because of this, they are good providers and they would never do anything to hurt them. I 
personally feel that it is true parents do not hurt their child directly, but the children hear the discussions 
and sometimes their parents' words that are not quite pleasant for them. There is a Japanese expression 
"kire-yasui" , which refers to this subject and literally means their "nerves tend to snap easily", that 
describes the situation clearly: with domestic violence in their homes, children suffer every day, and they 
are in this space of tension in where they easily lose control of their emotions and resort to violence.
         Finally, it has been suggested that kids do not want to be separated from their parents, but, it 
seems to me that also they do not want to see one parent treat the other like crap all the time, listen 
screams or see the throwing things. And for instance, no matter how much parents say it is not their kids 
fault, they always feel as if they were that fault, they feel guilty. Younger children (e.g. preschool and 
kindergarten) do not understand the meaning of the abuse and violence they observe and tend to believe 
that they "must have done something wrong". They would rather be sad because their parents are not 
going to be together any more than go on in this terrible life for too much time.
         One day, Dr Gary Slutkin said that <Q> referring when people grow 
up in an environment where violence is considered normal. Supporting this, some investigators have 
suggested that <Q>. Children want and need both of them in their lives because they need their love and they look to 
adults for guidance to take decisions and through their example, they teach their children the basic values 
and attitudes which they will carry in the future. Because all these reasons, I think the first solution which 
can be made by parents is play his/her role doing it her/his better.
         Another possible solution is when a child becomes violent in school, parents should make it 
easily to the teachers by admitting their children have a problem, and if the child express a desire to talk, 
let him say all what he/she feels. Finally, considering all these points, I strongly feel the most important 
thing that parents should do is to educate their children from their infancy at the age of 5, because a 
person's emotional base is formed during that period. Very young children need to be in contact with 
other people and need to have a structured lifestyle. Nevertheless, another important factor in children's 
bad behaviour is the teacher.
         It seems to be that teacher in the majority of the cases must be the masters of the subject they 
teach and nowadays we have a clear example that the education system does not work properly: America, 
Bradley Thompson of Clemson University said <Q>. On the other hand, and personally speaking, I think that teachers not only must 
be intellectually prepared but have a little acknowledgement about education. In spite of that, a child who 
can not read will become frustrated and humiliated; children should be constantly told how good they are. 
Teachers must make themselves respectable but at the same time have a good treatment with their pupils 
in order to not awake children's anger.
         One possible answer to this problem could be, first of all, give to all the teachers violence 
prevention training, something which has been successful in United States and is composed by violence 
prevention strategies and model programs for professionals. Secondly, when the personnel of a school 
have an idea of some domestic violence or any personal problem of a student, I think it must be said to 
psychologist or social worker so that they help he/she and, in a more serious cases, to contact with the 
police. Thirdly, in addition to let the students express with full freedom their thoughts (like with parents); 
teachers could offer them another ways of expression like draw or paint.
         These 3 possible solutions to prevent violence in school are thought only for those students who 
are not too much problematic. Other solutions that have already worked in some countries of U.S.A are: 
put barbed wire, metal detectors and armed guards in schools and make a psychological test with 
regularity to their students. To conclude with the solutions about teachers, there is one given by 
P.T.A.V.E (parents and teachers against violence), although I disagree with it, to the Missouri Legislature 
which says that: <Q>.
         Violent programs on TV produce a violent behaviour on children who watch them. 
Psychological research has shown these three effects of seeing violence on television: children become 
less sensitive to the suffering of others, they are more afraid of the world around them and more likely to 
behave in aggressive ways. In a study done at Pennsylvania State University said that children who 
watched violent programs were more likely to hit, argue and disobey class rules than those who watched 
the non-violent shows. On the other hand, some broadcasters believe that there is not evidence that 
television violence is harmful. But I believe that if children watch many violent programs, they can accept 
violence as a way to solve problems in the real life and imitate the violence they observe on television.
         Not only watch violent programs but also playing videogames with violence provoke a bad 
behaviour on children. According to British psychologist Mark Griffiths <Q>. 
However, many people think that the violent elements fascinate children, but they do not mistake it with 
the real world and that these elements are attractive as spectacular effects. In my opinion, children who 
play a violent videogame become more aggressive after playing it and also have bad consequences in 
his/her adult behaviour. They can not distinguish how to act in an extremely situation in the real world 
and make it as if he/she was a character of a violent videogame. 
         The first recommendation could be let each market decide himself if it buy these kind of video 
games. In addition to this, the governments could rate each game by the same system as movies, and also 
have a strict control in whom buy these games (similar to the sales of cigarettes). Although, form my 
point of view, the only solution which could be effective in violent video games is do not manufacture 
them. On the other hand, and talking about possible solutions for violent programs on TV, there are more 
efficient solutions from my point of view. First of all, parents can watch al least one episode of the show 
or cartoons their children are going to see and decide if they are able to see it. Secondly, parents can rate 
as forbidden programs those which are too offensive. Thirdly, parents can limit the time children spend 
watching TV and stimulate their children on doing another type of activities. Finally, parents can animate 
children to watch programs with acts of helping and with cooperation.
         In conclusion, this essay has focused on some of the reasons why I believe that children can be 
violent. Four main reasons have been mentioned: parents, teachers, television and video games. 
Considering all these points, I think all the society should help in this "war" against violence avoiding 
children to see it and of course, parents should educate for it since their childhood with teacher's help in 
some cases; both having a good treatment, listening them and with an impeccable relationship. With 
dialogue, all is possible. Silence only hides violence.

