         
         						
         In our present society homosexual marriage and child adoption has become one of 
the most important subjects of debate among all communities and governments. Gays and 
lesbians are in all parts of the world and as humans they are looking for an equal treatment 
and a system in which they have the same rights as heterosexuals. It could be considered 
by some religious collectives that they are not normal as human and consequently they 
must not have the same rights in the society. But it is also considered that, instead of 
being as humans as the heterosexual ones, they can get married but they are not able to 
adopt children. It is important to focus the basic notion of what gay/lesbian means. Be 
either gay or lesbian means a person is sexually attracted to people of the same sex. This 
meaning is used by all points of view like the base of their arguments. While in 
Netherlands homosexual people not only can get married but also have adopted child, in 
Afghanistan these people are seen as scoria. In the mid point are also these countries 
where the government has approved these laws but there are people who respect gay and 
lesbian rights but think they are not going to play in a good way their roles as parents. In 
this essay I am going to point out some of the main viewpoints concerning homosexual 
marriage and child adoption.
         
         
         One of the most main arguments often given to defend the homosexual marriage is 
based on what gay relationships are about. Some people argue that these type of 
relationships can be as good as a relationship between a man and a woman, and their 
relations only differ in the intimate act of make love. Lucy Anderson, a lesbian who was in a 
No sense election party at Scholz Garten said <Q> <R>. That is why gay and lesbian marriage is considered as a relationship which is based on 
love, affection to the other person and mutual attraction. Moreover, contrary this, some 
religious organizations consider homosexuality like nothing else but sex, and also with the 
stereotype that gays are promiscuous, are not able to stay longer in a relationship and 
these relations are superficial and simply sexual. This could be considered a realistic 
perspective since the base of any relationship is only known by its participants and no one 
can say the validity of these relations with the only judgement of a sexual orientation out 
of conventions and nobody should have their rights reduced for having a different sexual 
tendency.
         
         Another important argument that can be pointed out by those in favour of this 
marriages is that if they are in love and want to spend the rest of their life together they 
have the right to make official and legal their relationship. It could be said that, in 
Denmark for example, these homosexual marriages have been beneficial for the diminution 
of sexual diseases because it is also supposed that the promiscuosity is going to be lower. 
Moreover, there are those who argue, according to religious' opinion that these couples 
only decide to get married in order to call the attention of all the society against them and 
to break the rules of convention. They also said that marriages are only for procreation 
and for the continuation of the species. The argument that says they have the right to 
constitute a legal relationship may appeal to many people because many heterosexual 
couples who decide to get married is because of they want to legalize the relationship; 
they are not thinking of the idea to procreate and this is not a problem for them, but in 
the case of homosexual couples is the first thing thought. This argument makes sense 
because the important reason is not why they decide to get married, is the possibility of 
each couple whether to marry or not.
         
         In addition, those who are in favour of homosexual marriage are also agreeing with 
the right of adopting children. One of the reasons of many people is that they can provide 
love as heterosexual can and also can give children the stability they need. This idea is 
supported by "The American Academy of Paediatrics" of Chicago in a research which says 
<Q> <R>. 
Another reason is that have parents with the same sex is not a problem for children in 
terms of initiate them in an homosexual tendency and the same sex is not going to confuse 
a child's understanding of the world. "The American Academy of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry and The American Psychological Association" says that <Q> <R>. Nevertheless, there are some 
who consider this adoption something bad for children because they need to have a 
"mother" and a "father" in order to have in the same home the two different sexes and 
their respective features and that the consequences in these children will incite them to 
sexual disorders; something pointed out by Aquilino Polaino, director of the Psychology 
department at San Pablo University (Madrid) <R>. These seem logical 
arguments because children can be loved not only by a heterosexual couple but also by a 
homosexual one and grow up in a happy and open-minded family with the same love as have 
the rest of the children.
         
         One of the strongest arguments suggested by people against both homosexual 
marriage and child adoption is that they can choose in who they can feel attracted to and 
be heterosexual if they wish. For them it seems to be that homosexual people are 
perverted and make public their tendency only because we are in times in which been gay is 
a fashionable orientation. The Belgian cardinal Gustav Joos said that <Q> <R>; because of that and 
according to the laws of many countries such as: Cameroon, Fiji, India, Angola...all 
activities with homosexual tendencies are punishable with prison and/or in an economic 
way. Also that if they adopt children are not going to be able to develop their roles as 
parents and they are not going to educate their children beside the mother's viewpoint and 
the father's one, which is said is appropriate. Aquilino Polaino (Spanish psychiatrist) 
exposed that one child who lives with a homosexual couple is going to learn something false 
and ant natural: no differences between genres.
           People argue and also Christians promote that marriage is between a man and a 
woman by tradition and as institution and gay relationships are immoral as a rule imposed 
by the Bible as: <Q> <R>. However, the continues studies 
about gay and lesbian marriage and their child adoption made by specialist and 
paediatricians prove that an homosexual born homosexual, is not like if one person who is 
hetero decides become homosexual. It has been proved that an homosexual person has 
some chromosome disturbed such in a research made by a team from the Laboratory of 
Biochemistry at the US National Institutes of Health: <Q> <R>.  It appears also by studies children are equally 
treated as by a heterosexual couple: the "Convention of the Hague" in 1993 said that the 
adoption is not a right of parents to have a child, but is a child's right to have parents. All 
these seem to proof that these 2 rights for gays and lesbians are not as bad as many 
people affirm. Although these arguments appear to be persuasive, they have certain 
weakness because it can not been said homosexual couple is immoral only by terms of 
tradition, if the laws was not been changed because of their tradition, probably we would 
be living with the previous centuries ways of life. 
         Talking about the mid point of view dealing with this topic, it appears to be a group 
in the society with one and clear viewpoint based on the fact that they respect gays and 
lesbians rights, they also accept homosexual marriage (in some cases with other name) but 
they are totally against of chills adoption. They believe and accept that in our society 
there are different types of sexual tendencies, and that this issue is not relevant to say 
whether a person is good or not, they say the need to respect homosexuals as humans 
people. Fr. John Harvey says in his book "The truth about Homosexuality" about a 
Christian gay that: <Q> <R>.
         Perhaps, child adoption is the immediately topic in which these people think after 
this kind of marriage, for them, it seems that children adopted by gay couple is going to 
develop a homosexual tendency because they need both love and attachment from the 
same sex parent and consequently, its lost produce a child's rejection the masculinity (or 
feminity) the parent present. Also it is said that these children will be centres of jokes 
between their mates because of have parents with the same sex. On the contrary, there 
are those who think that if does it really matter whether love comes from? There are so 
many orphans do not doubt to give a child to a homosexual couple because the important 
thing for the child is to have parents, it is better to have two fathers or two mothers than 
to have no parents at all. These points are rather convincing, although, gay couples are as 
capable of loving children as anyone else, the society seems not be as updated as it must 
be in these cases and it is not also looking these attitudes in a natural way, so the children 
of the new generations will reproduce the same sexual discrimination they see around 
them.
         To conclude, we have seen that there are different arguments concerning 
homosexual marriage and if they can take part in child adoption. On the one hand we have 
seen that those in favour of both things gays and lesbians have the plenty right either to 
get married or adopt children as if they were heterosexual ones. On the other hand those 
who consider them as sick people and they are like this only by fashion and consequently 
they are not in the right to be parents because they would initiate children to homosexual 
orientation. Finally, we find a middle point of view in which have those sectors where 
people argue they are agree with gay marriage and that they must have the same rights as 
heterosexuals have but they are against child adoption, it seems to them children will be 
badly treated around them and also they need love given by two different sexes. This 
topic seems not to have an easy solution in which all the viewpoints are agree with, because 
instead of all people seem to be agree in gay marriage and almost all people on child 
adoption there are those who think that these children will not be educated properly.
         
         
         
