      
      Nowadays in Spanish society we are dealing with many social problems everyday: terrorism, immigration, building, salary and so on but perhaps one of the most unpleasant, at least from my point of view, is domestic violence. Domestic violence can happen in all forms of abuse and to anyone in all kinds of relationships. How to prevent this fact is a very hard issue to considered but unfortunately, apart from giving all the information this will continue happening. Despite of the fact that the law against domestic violence has been taken deeply, it has not been an enough solution since the numbers of victims has been raising. We have to think of what the responsibility lays on if in the victim or on the society that has to act critically against these evidences of murdering and think of how we can help to solve it. In this essay I intend to consider the basic problems of domestic violence and attempt to offer some solutions meanwhile I will use some statistical figures along the paragraphs. 

      For my part, I feel that one of the biggest problems in Spain over the past years has been the increase in the number of cases of domestic violence where most of the cases is male against female, although there is also a big percentage against men. It seems to me that this type of the problem takes place behind closed doors and is difficult to identify but recently the Home Office (Department of the Interior) has reported that during this year the deaths of women caused by domestic violence are 60, despite of the Domestic Violence Law. There are different varieties of aggressive behaviours from a person towards another within the context of an intimate relationship such as psychological and emotional where the victim is frequently disrespected by a destructive criticism and verbal abuse; sexual where the victim goes on an intimidation, the use of force and threats to make her perform sexual acts when she does not want to and physical which has the most highly degree of ending with serious injuries or even death in the victim by punching, slapping, burning and all kind of weapons used. In 2005 died 52 women, 62 last year and during this year 2007 have died around 60 as the first outcome of the Observatory against Domestic and Genre Violence on the application of the new legal text. Most of them, a 70% of the women murdered or assassinated by their partner died in silence and the rest (30%) denounced them before for mistreating. They have been "conditioned" to feel helpless and hopeless that in my own view, they somehow deserved being abused and that they have to keep silent about what is happening to them. Some stay because they still love their partner on some level. And they stay also because they fear retaliation and death....and with good reason. The average of injuries and deaths occur while leaving and the following two months after leaving. Domestic Violence does not only occur in marriages. An average 28% of high school and college students have experienced dating violence. My own view is that domestic violence not only jeopardizes women's safety, it damages the reins between husband and wife, but it also leads to family conflicts and social problems. Therefore, there is a need to work out solutions to the problem.
      Domestic violence is a global social problem with women being the prime victims. This makes me to think about the base of this problem that is the society that in my opinion is the first thing we have to take into account. So I feel that the public education is one of the effective ways to combat domestic violence since victims tend to think that it is a shame to let a third person to know they are facing such a family problem and above all if they are nearer of a religious formation. So , my own opinion is that we should try to focus on the education for younger generations to promote gender equality and mutual respect for all human beings, men and women. Nevertheless, there are those who think that the problem can start in even those high educated families so the education you have had during your life has nothing to do with this kind of behaviour. However, I strongly feel that it a truth although if the victim is a well-instructed in a profession she will avoid better many concepts which produce the systematic domestic violence because the victim will show that she has not got to depend on an abuser husband who wants her to give him her life.
      
      Speaking personally, truly is that this issue is unacceptable in a civil society where the law of the strongest is imposed already and for that reason something has to be changed. Most people who have never been abused can't understand why the victim doesn't see what is happening to her and doesn't leave the relationship for that reason the lack of knowledge on this point is massive and this has to change too. So firstly, I would argue about the adquisition on prevention of domestic violence before things would getting worse in a relationship. I believe that the victim is the main character in this kind of solution since she is the only one who has to decide if she is or not in the middle of a violent relationship. Many experts of domestic violence say that the woman  has to analyze the kind of man she is going out with and has to know if he has been in a violent relationship before because abusive men rarely change and of thinking it will be different with me is a quite a big mistake. However, personally speaking, I feel that this cannot be generalize because if a man is well-treated by an association where he is following a procedure in which he will solve his behaviour nothing bad has to happen in another relationship. Nevertheless, I suppose that this abuser is not treated exists the possibility of committing the same act with another woman.
      
      Generally, domestic violence happens with slowly facts each day depending on the results the violent persons has obtained till he can domain the victim totally. So, speaking personally an important thing possible victims have to do is to see the situation between lines, that is, what is going to happen before it would be too late to react to find solutions. However, there are many experts that say that you have to leave the relation immediately because the second time it would be worse so the victim can think about a safety plan and relay on the legal rights which  would defend her instead of getting risk at home. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this reaction is totally an adequate way of resolving this problem because the abuser could get more furious and wanting to reach his purpose. For my part,  the first time a domestic violence action is produced you have to sit down to talk about the problem and explore some solutions in order that this happen no more, that is, to leave fair that if there is a second situation like that, it would be the trigger of the marriage to separate each other immediately. The victim from my own view has not to forget the intentions of the husband although he makes her many and good promises. She has to remember the negative experiences that persons who had problems with their husbands found themselves invalid and indefense since they had not prepare themselves during their adolescence, relationship or even after getting married.
      
      To sum up, I would argue on the solution of preparing the society to avoid this kind of situations on the basis of the open dialogue and education on equality and where the victim has to know who to react, what possible solutions are offered to help her to finish that suffering looking for information between her family, experts, social, religious, public or private organizations joined to the books which are an inexhaustible resource to find the best solutions. The victim, in result the person who has to give the fist step, has to be strong enough to face herself against this illness and win again her health thinking that life is more precious than a relationship.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
