
      In our constantly developing society, sex education has not been taken still into a 

great consideration and probably this is the answer to the question of how we can reduce 

unintended pregnancies between youth and STD (sexual transmitted diseases) with AIDS 

as the main character. It is not surprising to note that adolescents' sexual attitudes and 

behaviours have greatly changed within the past two decades, whereas this has its 

difficulties in those countries where talking about sex is censured and it is considered like a 

sin like in India as an example. Many experts have created methods to inform teenagers to 

avoid the problems created by sex; however, there are those more conservative parts of the 

society that are against that kind information too.  Sex education tries to be conceived as a 

process of acquiring information and forming attitudes and beliefs about sex and sexual 

identity. It has also to do with the developing young people's skills so that they make 

informed choices about their behaviour and feel competent about acting on these choices. 

In this essay, I will discuss the different ways of introducing sex education to teenagers, 

their irregularities and the most controversial viewpoints of the society about this. 
      
      
      To begin with, young people can be exposed to a wide range of attitudes and beliefs 

in relation to sex and sexuality. The media is a way of transmitting health message making 

emphasis on the risks and dangers associated with sexual activity, whereas it also promotes 

the idea that being sexually active makes a person more attractive and mature. According 

to Lewis, these kind of information appear contradictory and confusing since depending 

where they get it as in advertising, television or magazines, as well as leaflets, books or 

websites that some will be accurate and others inaccurate. As the Guidelines for 

Comprehensive Sexually Education state <Q>. While Hollywood 

promote casual, thoughtless sex as the norm, teacher- led discussions can encourage 

children to consider the responsibilities attached to sexual relationships. This argument is 

rather convincing, although the message is not getting through teenagers, judging by the 

number of teenage pregnancies and continuing of STDs.
      
      
      Since this method is not very reliable, experts on sexuality education as R.Dickinson, 

D. Fullerton and A. Easthood, think that sex education should start early, before young 

people reach puberty (before they gave developed established patterns of behaviour). Some 

of the people as the most conservative viewpoint of the society are concerned that 

providing information about sex and sexuality arouses curiosity and lead to sexual 

experimentation. Although, this view appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness 

since there is no evidence that this happens as a report made by JE. Darroch and S. Singh. 

So an important thing is to engage young people in discussions about sex, sexuality and 

relationships by maintaining an open relationship with teenagers. This evidence is 

supported by experts as Hickman-Brown who thinks that at home, young people could 

easily have one-to-one discussions with parents or carers which focus on specific issues, 

questions and concerns. This argument makes sense but the reality is that the issue less 

treated at home is 'sex' as a study emitted on TVE in November 2007 with an 8'8 % since 

many parents and their children feel embarrassed on talking about some aspects of sex and 

sexuality. Experts argue that viewing sex as an on-going conversation about values, 

attitudes and issues as well as providing facts can be helpful. This argument has been 

shown as an example in countries like Neartherlands where families regard this issue as an 

important responsibility to talk openly with children and that has improved sexual health, 

regarding unwanted pregnancies and STDs among young people as we can see through 

the study made by R. Ingham and G. Van Zesser.
      
      
      Ignorance about sex is the primary cause of the spread of STD, for that reason giving 

sex education is schools is crucial to this spread, and it could be supplemented by frank 

discussion at home. The role of the classroom as a place of instruction is undermined by sex 

education. One possible argument is that if on the one hand our children are ignorant about 

sex and sexuality, then they should not be taught about it and will not enter into it until 

ready. It appears that we live in an indulgence culture, where nothing is ever anyone's 

fault. So if teenagers get pregnant, that is their fault and they should live with re results. 

Given that Britain's teen pregnancy rate is one of the highest in the developed world as an 

American Online Newspaper published the statistics, after over 50 years of sex education 

classes, they can hardly be declared to have been a success. Although some of sex 

education is part the curriculum at many schools; it remains a controversial and immoral 

issue in several countries, particularly with the regard to the age at which children should 

get start receiving such education, the amount of detail that is revealed and topics dealing 

with human sexuality or behaviour as safe sex practises, masturbation and sexual ethics. 

For example, in India the word 'sex' is taboo and this implies a great ignorance of the 

population, so that they have one of the most percentage of SDI people because 

contraception is not used and where the population can not be taught in schools since they 

do not go. This can be considered a realistic perspective since sexual education raises much 

contentious debates which covers the use of birth control such as condoms and hormonal 

contraception, the impact of such use on pregnancy outside the marriage, teenage 

pregnancy and the transmission of SDI.
      
      
      Increasing support for abstinence-only sex education by conservative groups has 

been one of the primary causes of this controversy, as many religions teach that sexual 

behaviour outside marriage is immoral, so tat this morality should be taught as a part of 

sex education. Other religions conservatives believe that sexual knowledge is unavoidable 

and their preference for curricula based on abstinence. Counties with this viewpoint, 

including UK and US, have a higher incidence of SDIs and teenage pregnancy H. 

Weinstock states. It is reasonable to argue that the existence of AIDS has given a new sense 

of urgency to the topic of sex education. In many African nations, where AIDS is at the 

epidemic levels, sex education are seen by most scientists as a vital public health strategy. 

Some international organizations as Planned Parenthood consider that broad sex education 

programs have global benefits, such as controlling the risk of overpopulation and the 

advancement of women's rights.
      
      
      To sum up, we can see through this essay the different methods we can find in our 

society and how we can deal with them to avoid unwanted pregnancies and above all 

sexual transmitted diseases by getting information about sex by the media, at schools and 

even at home. Moreover, we can see the viewpoint of the most conservative groups as the 

Church who is against the teaching of sex education and where abstinence is the best 

solution. So then, by making our own contribution and by being guided by those principles 

we can provide more sex education that works and improve the support we offer to young 

people.
      
 

