      It is generally agreed that some taboos have no sense at all. Others are considered harmful for human being and for society. Their objections are closely related to culture, however the incest taboo has a farther reasons of rejection: the unavoidable belief that biologically it is insane. The evidence shows us that the scientific arguments are no longer coherent as most of their objections are false. Apart from the biological problems it has presented during history, this restriction has depended on the country, the historical moment and also the circumstances surrounding the people who committed incest. Incest derives from the Latin "incestus" or "incestum", the substantive use of the adjective incestus meaning 'unchaste, impure', which itself is derived from the Latin castus meaning 'chaste' <R>. Endogamy is defined as sexual intercourse between closely related persons and it is condemned regardless of the feelings of the people. Nowadays it is apparently true that we can do a distinction between endogamies due to the degrees of the relationships inside the family. We could establish this distinction describing incest and inbreeding. Incest describes socially taboo sexual activity between individuals who are considered to be too closely related to enter into marriage. In other words, it is a social and cultural term. Inbreeding describes procreation between individuals with varying degrees of genetic closeness, regardless of their relative social positions. It is a scientific term, rather than a social or cultural term (from Wikipedia). In some countries the law seems to be very strict concerning penal code, even when we are dealing with cases of real love. In this essay I intend to present different viewpoints about the incest taboo and its controversy between cultures, researches and events.
      Incest is an occidental taboo and in most of the cultures it is seen as a way of something sinful. Many scandals during history have proved that endogamy occurs in every society but in spite of this knowledge it still being a taboo because the general tendency seems to classify incest like something bad or weird. As we look back in history, we notice that many cultures saw this relationships as something positive rather than forbid them. Pilar Cristóbal <R>  shows that mother-son relationships, forbidden in almost everywhere, were compulsory in primitive Greece and today are a ritual in the kubeo tribe of South America. In the kubeo tribe the male must have relationships with his mother to be initiated in adult life. Moreover, in the tutsi tribe of east Africa an impotent man could have sex with his mother in his wedding night so his aim would be to recover his virility. Although this practice seems to belong to a minority group these sexual relations could be considered a realistic perspective because their main objective is to have a strong, enrichment and beneficial experience but the general tendency is to reject these kinds of experiences. Camphausen <R>  talk about the story of Katsu Shintaro, a famous Japanese actor who kissed in public his mother's genitals while her funeral was taking place. The most interesting aspect was that the press referred to this event with respect and admiration rather than with surprise or sensationalism.
      On the opposite side we find many religions which consider both incest and inbreeding very outrageous. Romans <R> forbade incest between siblings and between aunts/uncles and their nephews/nieces. For Christianity, Hinduism or Shintoism having pleasure in sexual relationships and sexual attraction are considered sinful <R>.  Hinduism speaks of incest in highly abhorrent terms. Hindus were greatly fearful of the bad effects of endogamy <R>. Also a very categorical opinion is the Christian one. After reading "The sixth commandment" article, incest corrupts family relationships and marks a regression toward animality. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. However the Islamic viewpoint appears to be more convincing since it gives more permissiveness and not such a drastic ideology concerning this topic. The Koran mentions incest which prohibits a man from having sexual relationships with his mother, daughter, sister, paternal aunt, maternal aunt or niece. Relations with wet nurses are also prohibited. However, Islam allows for marriage with cousins and other more distant relatives but only in case of marriage <R>.
      As far as law in concerned, it seems that some countries have more flexibility in their penal code. According to the research done in Wikipedia <R>, Sweden is the only country in Europe which allows marriage between siblings who share one parent. In France, incest is not a crime; incest laws were abolished by Napoleon some 200 years ago. Incestuous relations between a parent and minor child are prohibited and punished by law in France, but not between adults. Within the United States, marriage between first cousins is illegal in some states, but not in others. In twenty-four states marriages between first cousins are prohibited, and another seven permit them only under special circumstances. In United States incest has been legalised as people have fought for it and nowadays there are more states which forbid endogamy than the ones that abolish it. Moreover, we find the case of Australia which presents us a wide range of possibilities when facing voluntary endogamy. Incest is a crime in every Australian state and self-governing territory, but unsurprisingly definitions and penalties vary. In all states and territories the legal definition of incest covers sex, whether heterosexual or homosexual, between a parent and child, as well as between siblings (including half-brothers and half-sisters). Furthermore, there are some states where has been established "the age of consent", the best illustration for people seems to be the case of New South Wales where the crime of incest only applies when the victim is aged 16 or over; in cases where the victim is under 16 the accused would be charged with the general offence of sexual intercourse with a child. This seems to be a logical fact because it appears for many people that it must be instituted an age of consciousness when dealing with inbreeding. 
      On the other hand, when we read Patrick Stübing and Susan Karolewski's story <R> we find out one of the most controversial events in our present society. Both sister and brother were born into the same family but Patrick was not living with them when Susan was born and they met for the first time in 2000. The German law has adopted severe measures in front of this relationship, as Patrick has been locked up in jail several times. This inflexibility has been sued by Endrik Wilhelm (The siblings' lawyer) who has lodged an appeal with Germany's highest judicial body, the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, in order to overturn the country's ban on incest. According to the other lawyer Joachim Frömling: <Q>. The public opinion in Germany is divided and this conflict has aroused a great deal of interest overseas. In Spain, for example, the population tends to be more open-minded but the general feeling is inclined to believe that this behaviour is not normal. Some conservative people think that incest is an anti-natural practice and also they classified it as an illness or even as an alteration of sexual behaviour. However there are other opinions which defend that voluntary incest between adults must not be punished by law because it is a sexual option and something that comes natural <R>. This second argument seems to be more convincing because it belongs to the circle of tolerance and permissiveness.
      The last point I am going to explain are the different view points of some investigators after their researches. Jiménez M. Antonio <R> declared that endogamy is not necessarily a synonym of deformity, debility or extinction. In some species we find circumstances where it could be an advantage and also unavoidable. A recent study runned by Lisa DeBruine in McMaster University of Ontario revealed that incest is not as weird as some people assert <R>. On the contrary it is presented a conclusion developed in the researches made by Edward Westermack, Helen Fisher, John Tooby and Leda Cosmides <R>. It has been conjectured that the repulsion of having sexual experiences with a relative is uncommon, genetic and biological. Another natural safeguard against incest, although one limited to sibling relationships, is that persons raised together from early childhood rarely find each other sexually attractive. The more time you see someone growing up, the more it appears to you that you are having sexual relations with that baby or child of your childhood.
      In conclusion this essay has dealt with some different viewpoints concerning incest. I have tried to explain how this practice provokes a huge polemic through cultures and researches. We have seen how inbreeding has happened since ages and also and how in some cultures it is seen as something beneficial. We also notice that there is a contradiction in some countries where it is supposed to be a democratic government where the society is against repression. However the law appears to be more severe than it should. The polemic seems to be well supported by every view point; however there are some arguments that are more realistic and less contradictory themselves because they bear the democracy in mind. The more open-minded people defend the freedom of expression, thought and sexuality far from being immoral or libertine. The general feeling is that there will always be reasons which make incest a taboo. Nevertheless the psychological mechanisms that keep it through ages seem to be nowadays more and more comprehensible.   








