	Nowadays the use of computers is very common. This has brought an enormous increase in the use of personal laptops or computers not only talking in professional terms. Most of middle class in our society get involved in a way in the marvellous world of technology so this area is forced to be competitive. In spite of competitiveness we know that the general tendency of the middle class is just to worry about their economy and let the others sort out their own problems. In such a competitive world the price has an important role as it bring more benefits to costumers. However they are conscious that something is not right when other people are affected by their actions. Public organisms try to show piracy as a crime even when we talk about our own personal use. In this essay I intend to argue, that in my point of view, piracy is something which needs to be distinguished but above all that it is not such a bad thing some organisms say.
	First of all I want to clarify that in piracy we can distinguish between: free information exchange and huge scale commercialization. I strongly believe that the thick line which separates these two aspects do not correspond with Copyright law. According to Charles W. Moore <R>  there is a controversy here because some people say that "breaking the law is always wrong" and this fact, referring to American people, makes every single person a "felon because who had never pirated anything?" and it also seems to him that the intellectual property is something very "abstract". I agree saying that this is very relative. If we look back in history we notice that we have been exchanging information during ages. I am not only talking in technological aspects but talking in intellectual property terms. See as a clear example the tradition of photocopying books with a no-commercial intention. This has never been punished. However it seems to some organisms and record companies that the law is the law and people who are committing piracy, even for non-commercial purpose, are also a kind of thieves. I feel that this is totally nonsense because the popular sentiment on this issue no longer fits with the idea of going to "jail" for download a few songs or record a CD for a friend. Furthermore, as read in SGAE web page (Sociedad General de Autores y Editores) they label pirates as persons who undervalue the music creator: <Q>.  I strongly believe that toughening up the law is a way, indirectly, of being an obstacle, and, above all, when we talk about normal costumers who are just imbuing with musical culture, we could say it is a repression. I would like to remark that music is culture, and it should be a "free buffet" for those who have the only intention of bringing culture to their lives.
	<Q> <R>. This was an unsuccessful attempt to change the general feeling on this issue and surveys give the reason: <Q>. For my part, I feel that it happens the same in our country. People do not identify with those pirates who are crazy about recording and earning huge quantities of money, so they do not really consider themselves as criminals. They are aware that this action breaks the law, but they don't care! And speaking personally, me neither. Law is sometimes unfair and we assume it as a part of our daily life. My own view of this is that there are some risks of breaking the law but hardly risks in this case. 
	According to Richard Stallman (President of the Free Software foundation) <Q>.. As I said before, piracy with non-commercial intentions has always existed but the concept of copyright has appeared in recent years. I think that Stallman's exposition in simply brilliant and clear. It seems to me, as I have noticed, that it is obviously a matter of money. Recording companies and publishers are just involved in the copyright law due to their vested interests. On the other hand, one of their arguments concerning piracy is the huge problem that organized bands cause to music industry. I partly agree with that point of view. It is impossible to see those bands, which have self-commercial interests, as bands who promote information exchange. Nevertheless, information exchange for personal use, personal culture and personal enrichment should not be judged, in my opinion, as a crime. I would maintain that condemning individual exchange between users is like limiting the culture acquisition, and that is actually a real social crime. 
      There are also some associations which defend user's rights. Some of them present alternatives and solutions but also a realistic point of view: <Q>. I see this as a strong and convincing argument to declare that when you exercise your rights you are not committing piracy.
      Recording companies and publishers have a strategy focused on discrediting the free traffic of ideas: suddenly, the widespread diffusion of information acquires a criminal role. I feel that this action of sharing culture is a social advantage in general more than individually. These companies say that they lose amounts of money. So they are not looking for public interest, they are just looking for their own private benefits. This makes me wonder if this loss is such a catastrophe as they say. I strongly believe that one of the benefits for the population, in spite of the recording company's bankruptcy, is that piracy forces to bring prices down.
      Another interesting point is the opinion of the artists. Most of the artists say that it is an annoyance that piracy is becoming so popular. Manu Chao, Joaquin Sabina and Julieta Venegas are examples of opponents to piracy. Julieta Venegas declared: <Q>. In mi view Julieta should think about the fact that the real enemy in this industry is actually her own recording company. Companies pay a ridiculous percentage to their artist and it is quite surprising. However there are other creators who are very conscious about this social movement, Alaska (Fangoria group) denounced the unfair price of CDs, she said: <Q>. For me, this is one of the best opinions with authority I have ever read.
      
      To finish this essay I have to say that I hardly believe that piracy will not end. Some pirates will be punished but they will not solve the problem going on this way. I have tried to show the problems in our society and some real solutions which are supported by experts, for example replacing the copyright system to a new better one.
