      From some time, to our present days, societies belonging to the first world (such as U.K, EEUU, France, Spain, and so on), have fallen into the necessity of creating specific legal systems directed towards the crimes committed by minors. These legal systems are quite different between them. It is to say that each country has their own view of how to punish those minors that have broken the law, and therefore, how to rehabilitate them into society as common citizens. In this essay I will, mainly, write about the Spanish Minor's law, and the controversy originated around it since its reform in January of 2000. I will give my opinion about that issue, which is, summarizing, that the law from the theoretic point of view is a great law (I will give later some reason), but is very ingenuous or utopian (again, I will explain it later on). So this essay is going to deal with the Spanish Minor Law, and its pros and cons. Other aspect that is going to be focused here is the comparison of the Spanish Law with its equals in other countries of the first world. 
      First of all, we have to consider the profile of the minor that commits a crime. That is something very important in order to know where the possible origin where the problem lies in, and therefore, attack it from the very beginning. Teens that commit a crime belong, in most cases, from broken or unstructured families, in where some of the following elements have existed. The principal elements are: drug addict parents, mistreatment (in any direction, it's to say paternal figure mistreating any member of the family), lack of education or upbringing, economic problems, and marginalization. The mixture of this kind of elements leads into teens breaking the law. The last information comes as a result of many investigations made by psychologists specialized in these sorts of topics, put in common.
      Once that the background of this type of criminals have been pointed, I would like to start writing about what I think are the best characteristics of the controversial Spanish Minor's law.  As first point I will said that under my personal point of view, when the whole law (I mean the reformed law of 2000) is read, the final thought that comes into the reader mind is that of the text having an important educational weight. The law points as the main solution that of educating the minor, as we can see in the following extract from the law  <R> <Q>. That process goes by through the following stapes: First, Judgment where, as we all know, teen's fault is demonstrated. Second, the minor is interned into a minor's center during the time established by the judge. Third, while he/she is in that center, the minor is under psychological attentions, that help them to understand what they have done, the consequences of their acts over society, victims, families, and so on. In addition help them to overcome the psychological damages that have led into the teen committing a crime. In fourth place, they are taught a profession that will allow them to live with dignity and not to relapse. And finally, when they are liberated, they keep on being under vigilance by their psychologist, and educators. That information lately given comes as resume of the best measures that appear in <R>. I strongly believe that the process could be successful because it is centered on education as the main tool to rehabilitate instead of punishing in its harder side, that could be under my view, for example, entering a child into a prison like adults one, instead of a minors center, were the psychological damage could be increased, and the reinsertion possibilities reduced. Some people could argue that in that sort of centers, the child is not really punished for his acts. It is to say that he/she does not receive the appropriated punishment for they are not in real prisons. Also, what tends to be the principal idea of that people is that teens that have served their sentence in a minor's center tend to reoffend, as they haven't feel the justice weight strongly enough. I sharply defend the idea of education as the main solution of problems in society, as it is. To subjugate a child to go to a real prison could bring, as I feel, more problems than solutions.
      In second place, I would write about, what I, personally speaking, think are the negative or wrong elements that this law contains. Firstly, I believe that, at the end, this law is protective in excess. In other words, in some cases as extreme as the one of Sandra Palo (the girl that was raped, hasty, and lately burnt by a group of minors from Mostoles), the law is not hard enough, as the maxim sentence that a teen can have is that of eight years. I strongly defend the idea that, such a cold murder is made by someone that lacks human empathy, and eight years of imprisonment (with the correspondent psychological treatment) can not be enough to recover a person and made of them normal citizen.  Some other people would argue that, in facts, the teens that commits such a cruel crime are under psychological attentions, and eight years of imprisonment is enough to develop successful results on the murderer. I mean, make him or her aware of the consequences of their acts, and the responsibility of the crime that they own, and therefore make them understand that it can never happen again. But What I try to say, is that in those cases in which the teen has murdered someone, they have to assume the responsibility of their acts (it does not mean that other minor that has committed a crime without blood doesn't have to assume his/her responsibility), and in most cases when a teen is condemned to eight years of imprisonment, his/her sentence is reviewed, with, in many cases, the reduction of the sentence. The last consequence is that, in general, many of those minors, relapse, and the "educational charge" that this law contains is lost during the process. Some people would argue that in this aspect the punishment that the minor receives is hard enough, and can not have more than eight years under imprisonment, for they are still at time of fixing their behavior. Under my view, I would say that the law should be more flexible in the sense of allowing the judge to impute sentence longer than eight years in those cases in where the cruelty of the crime shows that a long time is needed to fix, and punish the minor murderer. In conclusions, I believe that this law shows the minor more than a victim than a guilty person.
      In third place I would like to write about the different Minor Laws that exist in the first world. I would say that the Spanish one is one of the most transgressors of Europe. The one of France, is very similar to our law, as it has more educational weight, than punishment burden. On the contrary, the Minor's law from Great Britain is quite different. First of all we have to differ between the minors law from Wales and England (which share the same text), and the one from Scotland and Ireland. I would like to concentrate over the one of England and Wales. Their law has a highest burden on the imputation of responsibility over the minor that commits a crime, rather than the idea of education as the main solution of this social problem. I support that idea by the conclusion of a research made by a group of educationalist leaded by Mª Angeles San José García, who is a social integrator from la Comunidad de Madrid. Some people could feel that that highest degree of responsibility fallen over the child is a better system, because he/she would feel strong enough the consequences of their facts. Personally speaking, I feel that the more educational charge contained on a Minor's Law, the more effective it would be. One example of that idea is the one given by EEUU, their Minor's law is one of the hardest of the first world, for they have included death penalty (even for teens with mental disability). The educational burden is almost non-existent. As a result of this penal system, we have EEUU as the country from the first world with the highest rate of criminals under eighteen. Some people argue that that sort of penal systems as the last given are a great way of making teens, and even the whole population, understand that if they commit a crime, they would suffer the hardest price for having done it, which is paying with their own lives. I strongly feel that this is the politic of fear, and the solution for such a social problems is, as I have been saying all along the essay, through education.
      As a resume of the whole text, I will say that the pros of the Spanish Minor's Law, are: First, its principal aim is to educate and treat psychologically the minor that commits a crime in order for he/she understands the consequence and responsibility of his/her acts. Second, the real possibility of social reinsertion exists because of the entire infrastructure put under the disposition of the teen. In third case, they are taught a profession than will allow them to have a normal live. And finally after being liberate they have to pass a period of time in which they keep on being under psychological treatment. On the other hand, I find, what could be the dark side of the law which is, in few words, that it should be more flexible in the sense in which the judge should have more freedom of imputing a sentence according to the crime committed and the circumstances that are around the minor. It is to say that if the crime has been of a great cruelty, the judge should have the chance of imputing a higher sentence than eight years.
      The conclusions that I finally get of this issue is that, the Spanish Minor Law, in theory is great, but it freckle of ingenuous and idealistic. It is to say that, if we had a line, on one extreme we would find the Spanish law, and on the other the American one, finding in the middle the rest of laws that have been mention before. It does not mean that the Spanish one does not work, it just mean that our society have to keep on working to find harmony between the necessities of the criminal (reinsertion), and the necessities of the victim, justice.
      
      
      
