      It is something well-known that in Europe, monarchy has been a traditional kind to govern a country. Though, nowadays this system has evolved to give way to republics, as for example France, Germany or Italy, between some others countries. In our present days we can still find monarchies in Europe, as the Spanish, Norway or the one involved in this essay, the British monarchy. This last one is called Constitutional Monarchy. According with the definition of the official web page of the Royal Government of the United Kingdom, a Constitutional Monarchy is <Q> <R>. This essay will deal with whether it is wanted to keep on having monarchy in United Kingdom or not.
      The first opinion that is going to be dealt is from people who do not back monarchy as a governing system of a developed country, in this case U.K. This idea is held by People who believe that constitutional monarchy is a very effective political system. The first arguement these people tend to give is that monarchy promotes unity and continuity. We can see that argument backed in the web page Republic or Monarchy, where it is said <Q> <R>. Another argument given is that in a way having a monarchy is an effective method to control radical parties to develope their politics if they get to the power. This last information is also found in the same web page <Q> <R>. So what they feel is that it is a source of strength in time of crisis. This people point out that monarchy function as a powerful symbol of a country, and if abolished the identity of U.K will be weakened. Pro-monarchy groups also back their position with some statistics as <Q> <R>, so they argue that in facts British people do not really want a republic system. Also they say that the British Monarchy is one of the oldest of Europe. Therefore they really feel that abolishing Constitutional Monarch would be a mistake as they feel that it keeps on working effecitvely. Pro-monarchy groups also back their ideas by arguing that none of the three main British parties have an official policy of republicanism <R>. For them this is an evidence of people support to the Constitutional Monarchy. Personally speaking I think that the arguments given by pro-monarchs are weak because the unity and identity of a country do not fall over monarcs, but over British population. In addition I feel that monarchies are politicals systems that belong to medieval times, not to our current world, where it has become something unecessary to have kings undemocratically elected. I strongly believe that the duties carried out monarcs can be successfuly developed by the elected gonvernment. 
      The second opinion that can be found concerning to this topic is given by those who are called Republican groups. They do not agree with Constitutional Monarchy as an available way to govern a country. Their aim is to <Q> <R>. In other words, what republicans argue is that the next logical political stage should be a Republic, where the undemocratic element (hereditaryness) would disappear. Apart from defending democracy in itself by voting the Head of the State, republicans also argue that the fact of having a Monarchy attacks citizen rights <Q> <R>.  In the economic field, British republicans argue that their monarchy is too expensive; it cost a year over £100 million per annum <R>. In contrast, they mark that the Royal British family is one of the richest family over the world. Under my point of view it seems something unlogical to pay a family that large quantity of money just for being who they are, a royal family. I strongly feel that if that money was sent to Africa instead of  being given to that rich family, the hunger,  diseases, and in general terms, the poverty of a whole contintent would desappear. Also, I back the idea that it does not seem logical to me to keep on having a monarchy in a democratic society. People should have the right to elect the Head of the State.
      On third place we find those who place their view right in the middle of the last two opinions given. These people point out, in few words, that the politic system of U.K should be decided by its population. In order to achieve that purpose they think that a referendum should be made. They support this idea as a way of finishing with the controversy around the British Monarchy. They argue that, in facts, British people have never been asked about what they feel should be the kind of British State, whether Republic or Monarchy. It is held by this people that British population has just been asked through polls, and under their view, the polls can be easily manipulated, as it depeneds on how the questions are made and by whom. So that, for them, pulls results are not completely reliable, meanwhile a referendum is. This idea is backed by Bill Emmot, a well-known British economist who pointed out in the British newspaper, The Guardian: <Q> <R>. This point of view, under my own and personal consideration, seems strong, as what it supports is to listen British population voice. I sharply believe that the aim of a government, though many times it does not happen, is to listen and serve the people. Whether the monarchy should be kept or not is something up to the Biritish population. Being United Kingdom a democratic country, to make a referendum appears to me a quite logical way to solve this old and polemic issue.
      In fourth place we find those people who are not interested in this debate, this people tend to represent the abstention percentage in the parliament elections. It has to be said thas this percentage could be considered worriesome, as in 2001 elections the turnout was 59, 4%, being increased in the last elections (May 2005) to a 61, 4% of turnout <R>. It could be explained by two different reasons, as this people consequently can be devided into two groups. First, we find those who, in facts, are not really interested on political matters, and as consequence they do not vote in the British parliament elections. They explain this behaviour by saying that politic is something that does not directly affect their daily lives, and that whatever they vote, the result could not change their lives. On the contrary, the second group do think that politics is something that affects their daily lives, but they do not feel themselves represented by any political party, so it carry them to perform abstention. The relation for these two points of view with the Republic debate is that, in factc, neither of them are interested on it. The first one just manifests lack of interest in general political matters and the second one argue that the solution for their political problem does not happen trhough abolishing the Monarchy and setting up a Republic, as possibely the political parties would remain the same. Personally speaking, I think that the first group represents an importan percentage in society, and that is, under my perspective worrying, as politic is present in our lives as citizens in things as important as salaries, food prize, social infrastructures, and so on. All this things are under politic will.  Maybe the root of this lack of interest lies on education. About the second group  I will say that, under my consideration, If they do not feel represented the solution is not abstention, but try to vote the political party nearest to their ideology, or as a last resort, create their own party, as many people have done through History. I think that is the way of changing things.
      In conclusion, in the British society we can find a wide variety of opinions about this political issue. Through some polls it has been seen that a high percentage of the british population is still in favor of keeping the Constitutional Monarchy system, what in the other hand seems something completely respectfull. Though, it has to be said that a possible end of this debate can be found in a referendum where British people would be given the oportunity to talk by themselves. In the end, whether to have a Monarchy or not is something that just the people can decide. We should never forget that politic is something originary created with the aim of satisfying population necesities.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
       
      
      
      





