Nowadays the usage of birth control methods is something quite widespread in first world societies. Contrary as it could be thought, contraceptive methods are not something that belongs to XIX century, as many people think due to the famous demonstration made in 1937, that the female hormone progesterone could halt ovulation in rabbits <R>. It belongs, at least, from 4000 years ago, when Chinese women drunk mercury to achieve contraception. According to Ortho Women's Health & Urology web page, Chinese culture was not the only one that took oral methods of birth control; we can also point out the example of Greeks who ate diluted copper ore, or even Italians who drank tea of willow leaves with mule's hoof. In this essay, objective information about birth control methods and some different opinions about the usage of contraceptive methods (not only about oral contraceptives) are going to be given.
      First of all, it is important to keep in mind what are the different contraceptives methods that can be used. According to the Women's Health web site, the most used methods of birth control are: 1, Fertility awareness methods, which is, textually "a woman that has a regular menstrual cycle has about seven or more fertile days, when she is able to get pregnant, so the methods is not to have sex on the days when the women is more fertile". 2, the male condom, it is a barrier method of birth control, it is wore by men, it is 98% effective, and protects against sexual transmission diseases. 3, Oral contraceptives: Also called the pill, it contains estrogen and progestin which are hormones. It is a pill taken everyday, and blocks the release of eggs from ovaries, it is from 95 to 99%effective from preventing pregnancy, but it does not protect against diseases of sexual transmission. 4, IUD, (there are different varieties) is a small T shaped device placed inside the uterus, and contains progesterone, it is 99% effective, but does not protect from sexual transmission diseases. 5, the female condom, textually from the web site "worn by the women, keeps sperm from getting her body (...) It may protect against sexual transmission diseases; 99% effective". 6, Diaphragm, it is a barrier method of birth control, in which the sperm is blocked from getting the egg, it is from 74 to 94% effective. 7, the patch, it is a skin patch worn on the lower abdomen, it release progestin and estrogen in the blood stream, from 98 to 99% effective, it does not protect against sexual transmission diseases. 8, the NuvaRing, which release progestin and estrogen, it is squeezed between the thumb and the index finger and is inserted into the vagina, from 98 to 99% effective, it does not protect from sexual transmission diseases. 9, Sterilization, it can be both surgical or nonsurgical, it is effective from 99,8 to 99,9%. Finally, 10, Emergency contraception, which is commonly known as the "morning after pill", it can not be used as a regular method of birth control as it is very aggressive, 99,9% effective and it does not protect from sexual transmission diseases. As conclusion, the methods that protect both against pregnancy and sexual diseases are the barrier methods.
      The first opinion about the usage of birth control methods that is going to be given is the one belonging to people who tend to think, in few words, that the usage of these kind of methods is something that goes against nature, and specially, against the word of God. In other words, talking in general terms, those who do not back birth control methods tend to be religious people, as the shared point of many religions is that God is who decides over human life, not human him/herself. Many Christians tend to argue that idea with the Genesis book, in where it is found some ideas like:  <Q> <R>.  A part from that explicit religious reasons, that group of people also feel that cons of Birth Control are, in particular, that some pills  promote  abortion, as some of them abort fertilized eggs, as IUD; also that pill can cause circulatory disorders that can lead into death, and finally that the pill can also cause permanent infertility. In general terms, they think that those Contraceptive methods lead into lustful behavior, in other words, they feel that the aim of sex, which for them is procreation, is completely lost. This point of view seems to be weak because it could be argued that Birth Control emerges as an answer of a social necessity, which is the possiblity of deciding what is the best momment of having a children, or having it or not. Also it does nos seems to fit with the whole population, but just to them under religious ideals.
      On the other hand, it is found the opposite view about that issue, which is those who think that we have the right of deciding over our lives, in other words, they think that it is up to humans to decide whether they want to have children or not, and practice sure sex; sure meaning having no risk of transmission of sexual diseases or getting pregnant. Generally speaking those who back this idea tend to be people with medium-high culture level; it could be explained because culture allows people to have wider views about things. They feel that the more information about human sexuality, the more able people could be to take a decision. Therefore what they point out is that, in general terms, religious people take for granted what they are told by their religious leaders, and do not search information out of these environments. Also, they feel that birth control, if used appropriately, is a great measure to control overpopulation, which is an important problem that affects our current societies. These people, also light up Birth Control Method as the symbol of women freedom, because it permits them to develop their lives in the direction that they want, not just practicing the old role of mothers working at home and having children. Further more, it is argued that it represents couple's freedom as it allows them to decide when the appropriate moment to have a child is. As an analysis of this opinion, it appears to be strong because contraceptive methods permit people to have control over their lives, and they are also a great measure against overpopulation. 
	We have seen two extreme points of view about Birth Control Methods, clearly opposed. Apart from them, we can find a third one, which can be placed in the middle. This opinion is given, in most cases, by people who does not believe in the usage of chemist medicaments in our daily life (as homeopaths, people who believe in oriental medicine, and so on), as they think we can find remedies for almost all physc problems in natural medicine. That people believe that the usage of birth control methods is something positive for society, because it helps to control overpopulation and it gives freedom to women. But they tend to believe that not all methods are good. They feel that barrier methods are the best ones because prevent from pregnancy and from sexual transmission diseases, without any change in women's cycles. But in the other hand they think that all contraceptive methods that release chemical elements whith the aim of modifying the natural cycles of women (the pill, IUS, NuvaRing, and so on...) are something unatural and even risky. They support this idea in medical researches that point out that these type of contraceptives methods have got many side effects, like the possible development of heart diseases, high blood preassure, or blood clots, this information can be easily found in the directions for use of the pill. They also argue that it consumption can lead, in many cases, in sexual relations with no protection against sexual diseases. This view seems to be strong because it is true that people who take the pill does not tend to use barrier method, leading into sexual diseases transmission. But in the other hand it does not seems to be a convincing point as the modifications on women cycles are done to fix something that is not working correctly. Furhter more, pill has been proved to be an effective way of preventing uterus, ovaries, and mammary cancers. 
	In conclusions, in first world societies Birth Control has emerged as something quite relevant in people lives. There is a wide variety of birth control methods; its usage is up to each one. This decision should be taken after having considered as more information as possible, because in facts, this information can help to take the option that better fits each one necessities.





