   
   Illegal immigration is an actual theme herd nowadays since last two decades. This theme is closely related to illegal works like prostitution, today most of the cases of illegal in different countries have something to do with drugs or prostitution. While illegal immigration continues to be a "hot issue" in the United States according to the United States Immigration Support, other countries around the world, particularly in Europe, are also being affected in a highest way (due to the fact that immigrants find the entrance to these countries easier). Illegal immigrants may enter a country illegally or they may initially enter legally but they are considering illegal when their period of stay ends. The terminology includes illegal, undocumented immigrant, undocumented alien, unauthorized migrant, illegal migrant, illegal alien, migrant or undocumented worker. This people have one thing in common, they are seeking a better life. Some of them leave their country due to the politics and or the economic situation at their country.  Illegal people tend to choose countries that are usually more technologically advanced have more resources than their original country and offer more opportunities, however, there are some individuals that leave for personal reasons.  Live in their new country is very difficult, they have to face a new language they do not know, a new culture, society and religion; everything is completely different.
   
   Not all individuals may be voluntarily entering the country illegally some of them that are cheated by mafias (as slaves). Undocumented immigrants tend to work ias laboures or cleaners, but some of them use to have works related to drugs or prostitution mafias.After the end of the legal international slave trade by the European nations and the United States in the early 19th century, the illegal importation of slaves has continued with the mafias ,some people is kidnapped or tricked into slavery to work as laborers, for example in factories; but know, most of them are slaves of drugs and prostitution . Organized  crime focus their attention in "white slave trade" referred to the smuggling of women,  under pressure and fraud, for the purposes of forced prostitution and in the use mens in order to transport  drugs inside their stomach .Now "sexual slavery" and "drug slavery" are common problems, particularly in Eastern Europe, Middle East, South America and Thailandand also in the main countries where they arrived like Spain, France,Italy and in less degree U.S.A. and Malt. Those trafficked in this manner often face additional barriers to escaping slavery, since their status as illegal immigrants makes it difficult for them to gain access to help or services.
   In this essay I intended to express my opinion agains the illegal inmigration without control and against prostitution attached to this topic ,work that most of the illegal womens are forced to do .
   
   Although it seems impossible to find an argument in favour of the illegal immigration without any kind of control, there are lots of entrepreneurs that really love the idea of the massive arrival of illegal aliens. From my point of view, the point of view of a non business woman , it is very difficult to undrestand, but from the point of view of business men undocumented people are a bussines, nearly they are not considered people, they are an advantage ,a  sort of "machine". This is due to the fact that entrepreneurs that "contract" these immigrants will not have to sign o contract, pay an amount to the Social Security or pay a high wage. Acording  to "Formación laboral" an spanish institution dedicated to the formation of labourers some business men describe illegal immigrants as: " ideal workers", reponsible and grateful ; they do not have weekends,holiday and you save a lot of money in Social Security or bonus payment so these mens do not mind getting fined. 
   
   Another point of view completely different and more neutral is in favour of the illegal people entrance with a  retricted number of immigrants per year, knowing were they are going to live and with special work contract. Today  it is very difficul to have a work contract without being exploted if you have ilegal documentation. People in favour of this point of view, in which group I include, think that  non legal immigrants under control should have the opportunity to work in a developed country with favourable work conditions and being legalized if they are good workers. Contoled illegal immigration will reduce the number of exploiters and the number of mafias that cheat undocumented people because it will be easier to have new and better live conditions.
   
   Some people feel that illegal immigrants should not be allowed to enter into another country because they consider them robbers, robbers of the job , of the culture, traditions, and of course burglars. These people think that immigrants come to more developed country in orther to take other people jobs, impose their own culture and most of them to earn money stealing the citizens. Actually there is not any kind of study that shows this, this is completely wrong, most of the immigrants do the jobs other people rejets, most of them have a decent work and do not have the necesity to stole.
   In spite of this completely against of any kind of immigration point of view, I strongly believe that controled illegal immigration is beneficious to the receiving countries if they facilitate these new people a  job , with the posibility of legalizing their situation if they are eficient workers without being exploited. In this way we could reduce the organizad crime due to the better conditions of live the arrival countries offer to its new population instead of the pejorative conditions of mafias. Not only  we would solve a way exploitation or help underprivileged people but also we could learn more about differen cultures controling in a way prostitution one  of the major problems derived from it.
   
   People have very different views on the subject of prostitution. Since Mesopotamian times, attitudes surrounding prostitution have evolved and changed many times experiencing the same evolution of thoughts as their prostitutes experienced empathy in the beginning then rejection. Today opinions have not changed; prostitution is the job that a big number of illegal women are forced to realize, this could be due to the mafias, because they could not find a job or because the wages normally is superior.
   Organized crime and prostitutes clients feel that prostitution of illegal women should be considered a legal work. These people do not want prostitution being reduced because with this business mafias earn lots of money and clients other satisfactions. Clients do not look for the women situation and less do the mafias exploiting and cheating them with not legalizing their situation or even with killing their families.
   Fortunately, there is a group of people who reject the previous point of view, considering their thought inhuman and degrading. In relation with this point of view, I consider important the law some countries developed the "Ley sobre la prohibición de la trata de personas para su explotación sexual" a law that makes possible find all the rings round the prostitute, and in a way help obliged or voluntary prostitutes to leave this job that destroys these women life.
   I completely disagree with every pejorative treatment to any human being. Prostitution is a job that attempt to human life, right and is too linked with drugs.  In my opinion, we are not really conscious of the suffering of these women, forced to have sex and threatened even with their families' lives. The law against sexual exploitation is a good manner to reduce prostitution; I really approve it because it helps to minimize this and other crimes.  Everybody should have the right to a worthy live and we must help in the way it is possible to achieve it.
   
   To conclude, I have tried to show my opinion against the massive arrival of illegals without control and decent conditions; on the one hand and most importantly, because everybody should have the right to have a good life respecting the other life and on the other hand because it would help to reduce the organized crime so the exploitation. Not only I tried to show I am against not controlling illegal immigration but also against prostitution that eliminates human rights making these workers have no real life full of suffering. I am afraid that eradicating these two crimes is impossible but it is possible to reduce it.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
