

Anorexia is relatively recent topic nowadays that has created lots of publications and intensified the controversy about the causes of an illness that both frighten and fascine society. The mass media, as one of the most influencing methods, have most of the times looked for patients and familiars that could in a way express through their experiences the negative consequences of this illness in order to make society aware of this nutritious disorder that sometimes finish with the patients' death; but it is important to notice that other times the theme of anorexia has being treated with frivolity not only by the mass media but also by clothes designers. In this essay I will try to comment some of the main viewpoints regarding anorexia , the major influencing groups and associations that try to help people who suffer anorexia and their families giving my own opinion of the lack of information .

In society women and also increasingly men and are being given the message starting from a very young age that in order to be successful, happy and loved, they must be thin. Eating disorders are on the rise. Television and magazine advertising show the image of glamorous and thin models everywhere. Thousands of teenage, especially girl between 14 and 18 years, are starving themselves daily to obtain what the fashion industry considers to be the ideal figure. Actually anorexic and medical associations are helping the fight against anorexia and other eating disorders, such as the Anorexia Bulimia Nervosa Association (ABNA), the National Association for Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (ANAD) and the American Psychiatric Association (APA); paving the way for research and new and better treatments in the cases where they can avoid the illness and specially in cases where it is avoidable making nutritious campaigns recommending society and specially adolescents (that are more vulnerable), to have a proper feeding and teaching them to be less influenced by wrong images exposed in the media. This beneficiary actions made by these associations are contradicted by other medical groups such as the ones who direct beauty centres or beauty clinics that support the argument that slimness is beauty. This kind of clinics are determined to operate people who really do not need this operations (even extremely thin people) in order to get higher benefits without taking into account that health is the most important thing regarding people's happiness.

In my opinion associations such as the ones I have mentioned before play an important role in making society aware of the anorexia real problems showing reality as it really is, using shock campaigns. This kind of associations provide a great support not only to people who suffer anorexia but also to their families, families that find very helpful having a group of members that are suffering the same problem to talk and share opinions and lived circumstances. I personally believe that plastic surgeon must operate when it is extremely necessary due to health problem; before this operations the patient must be informed by a psychologist and nutritionist groups dedicated to make patients conscious of what they really need to change. Psychologists are entrusted of making the patient conscious of their problem trying to show when they are wrong and if they really need to this operated. Nutritionist will recommend the patient a proper diet according their age and height. This attentions sometimes are not the ones given in a beauty clinic that are more interesting in benefits instead of in the patient.

However although we might find impossible having people who do not take care of the influence of the skinny images or support them, we could always find fashion designers prefer this kind of "beauty". This designers demand models using very small sizes. Ms. Von Furstenberg, the president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, said: <Q> but she do not realize that someone who is literally skinny at first sight is unhealthy. She is not the only one who does not realize of the importance of models in relation with the anorexia, other designers have resisted age and weight requirements, while the doctors' group of the Academy for Eating Disorders insists that they are necessary. The Spanish designer Ángel Schlesser said that designers should not be blamed for the existence of eating disorders among models or the prevailing obsession with thinness in popular culture and blame family of being the offender of anorexia. Joined to this opinion we could find some other such as the ones of the media, fashion and beauty magazines, publicity and clothes stores.
Television and publicity are the more powerful media, most youth people watch television 2 or 3 ours a day what generates an excessive publicity where the prototype of men and women is the thin one. The APA (American Psychiatric Association) has demonstrated that the human being is rather vulnerable to society and specially to influencing visual images that indirectly get into mind, so that is why psychologist and associations fighting against anorexia criticize some television programs and spots that favour an ideal skinny woman.  It has been suggested that adults magazines, enterprises and commercial firms had made the youth vulnerable, generating them insecurity and reducing their self-esteem, being millionaires profits their only objective.

Fortunately, in my opinion, not all designer are like Ángel Schlesser or Ms. Von Furstenberg and not all the media or stores show skinny models. I strongly believe that that the current emphasis on extremely thin models will eventually shift toward a womanlier figure, like that of the supermodels of the early 1990s. I also find important to point out that the media is increasingly being more conscious of the importance of anorexia and have banned programmes and advertisements, that in my opinion showed an extremely thin body as perfect; that will provide the youth all society longs: success, beauty and control. Although the media has published images regarding anorexia in a negative way with beauty programmes I believe that is important to take into account that it have also included round table discussion where some politicians have announced their obligation with the public administration in order to provide it resources and enough formation to help affected families at the sanitary level.
Fighting against these giants of society is very difficult but thanks to the courage of the small parents groups , to patients that have overcame eating disorders and to sanitary information and fighting against social manipulation we could be more informed of this theme and we could in a way help to reduce anorexic cases.

To conclude, it is widely accepted that the government, the psychiatric association, other members of association related to anorexia and society in general should be more involved in the themes associated to eating disorder; guarding the programmes contents because most of the programs that deals with anorexia threat this topic with frivolity showing the sensationalist side instead of the real problem. We should also guard the publicity because it could contain subliminal messages (as in beauty and slimming products) that attire the youth attention with perfect model making us believe that we could be as splendid as the models. I believe that with this kind of control and with the lean of the society, we could in a way reduce and make prevent society of the influence of anorexia




