   
   
   
   Homosexuality is an actual theme norwadays that has created controversy as one of the most significant changes in the legislation of recent times. Homosexuality is defined as the sexual interest in and attraction to members of one's own sex. Female homosexuality is frequently referred to as lesbianism; the word gay is often used as an alternative for both "homosexual" and "lesbian," though it may refer specifically to male homosexuality. 
   At different times and in different cultures, homosexual behaviour has variously been encouraged, approved of, tolerated, punished, and banned. Homosexuality was not uncommon in ancient Greece and Rome, particularly between adult and adolescent males. Jewish, Christian, and Muslim cultures have generally viewed it as sinful, although many religious leaders have said it is the act, and not the inclination, what their faiths prohibit. 
   Attitudes toward homosexuality are generally in constant movement, partly because of increased political activism (like the gay right movement demmanding the same rights as heterosexuals). Until the early 1970s many medical organizations, classified homosexuality as a mental illness, but that designation was widely dropped in subsequent years. Some beliefs about homosexuals (including the stereotype that gay men are weak and effeminate and lesbians aggressive and masculine) have also largely felt down; some countries, cultures, and religious groups, however, continue to view homosexuality as deviant. Homosexual orientation, like sexuality in general, apparently results from a combination of hereditary factors and social or environmental influences, and it tends to coexist with heterosexual feelings. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the main view points dealing with homosexual marriages and children  adoption in homosexual couples.
   
   One of the strongest arguments suggested by some religion and most of their followers (conservative Protestants,the Catholic Church, Mormons, traditional Jews, and Muslims) , experts or political ideologies (most of them followers of the right  - wing) suggest that homosexual people should not have the right of getting married. Those who support this opinion speak from their religious and political principles such as that the unique worthy marriage is the one between two heterosexuals.
     Though this point of view homosexual "marriage" is considered wrong because it involves sex that doesn't create life .God created man and woman with certain complementary capacities, and not  using them is an insult to the Creator. Same-sex marriage would further weaken the traditional family values essential to our society. This is reflected in the Judaism key Bible passage, the story of Onan, a man who sleeps with his dead brother's wife but avoiding her pregnancy so God slew him as a sign of disapproval. Since the ancient times the Vatican had maintained that same-sex marriages put in danger the traditional family, destabilize the marriage and family and attempts to both of them. 
    These arguments seems to make sense in the way that same-sex marriages will not have children if it is not adopting or with fertility treatments but this argument does not prove that same-sex marriage will end with the traditional family because heterosexual marriage or unions will always exist; to many people the anterior argument against homosexual marriage may be rejected because denies the human right of marriage and do not notice that the most important thing of marriage is love.

   Mostly homosexual associations maintain the arguments in favor of homosexual marriages. Homosexual asssociations, such as ILGA (International Lesbian and Gay Association),and their members support that denying marriage to them is a violation of the human freedom;that marriage benefits should be available to all couples; that same-sex marriages will not  hurt society or anyone in particular because the only thing that matters in marriage is love.
   Homosexual associations are not the only one that lean towards same-sex marriages, the APA (American Psychological Association) and Amnesty International mantain that denying same-sex couples a legal access to civil marriage is discriminatory and can adversely affect the psychological, physical, social and economic well-being of gay and lesbian individuals ;these associations also  find important to point out that permitting same-sex couples to marriage may especially benefit people who also experience discrimination based on age, race, ethnicity,  gender and gender identity and  religion. After the legalization of the same-sex marriage in Spain  in 2005, some poiliticians like the President Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero responded to Catholic criticism by saying that there were no damage to marriage or to the family in allowing two people of the same sex to get married;it will  not  ill threat to the institution of marriage, but precisely the opposite. The law recognizes and values marriage and same-sex marriages whose only consequence will be to avoid senseless suffering of homosexual human beings. This arguments defending homosexual marriage seems to be widely accepted because protects humans rights, stating that no one is different from the others and must have the same rights.
   
   With regard to child adoption it generally know that adopting a child is very difficult nowadays not only to homosexuals but also to heterosexual; in spite of being too hard the most damaged are homosexuals because they still do not have the same rights. Trough this point is important to notice that there are two different positions the ones who believe that homosexuals cannot adopt children and those who believe that homosexuals and heterosexual must have the same rights, if heterosexual could get married and adopt children; homosexual must have the same rights. 
    Most of the people that supports that gay people should not adopt, believe that adults can do what ever want with their lives but they cannot decide about children lives that will not be brought up in what they consider a "natural" environment (different sex parents). A research of the American College of Pediatricians suggests that children reared in homosexual households are more likely to experience sexual confusion. The environment in which children are reared is absolutely critical to their development , the American College of Pediatricians believes it is inappropriate, potentially hazardous to children, and dangerously irresponsible to change the prohibition on homosexual parenting, whether by adoption, foster care, or by reproductive manipulation . The spanish expert in laws Fernado Malo González in  the book "La homosexualidad y el matrimonio" states that  adoptions must follow the norm of biological principles taking into account that children should have an enviroment as similar as the biological that is to say one men and women, to full fill his own bilogical needs. The problem with the anterior arguments is that adoption in same-sex couples is a recent topic so the number of studies done is too small to take into account that only a man and a woman can properly bring up a child, while love and common sense seem to be considered the most important thing to rear a child.
   
   Rejecting the anterior point of view, The American Psychological Association, Child Welfare League of America, American Academy of Pediatrics, and many other relevant professional organizations including gay and lesbian associations believe homosexuals parents to be as qualified as heterosexuals. Althought the arguments in favour of same sex-couples adoptions and marriages seems to be the less powerfull , some people will argue that these arguments are the one that  protect the equality of rights.
   
   In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments both them deffending and condemning homosexual marriages and adoptions. Some of them deal with the freedom of the individual to chose his or her couple, and others deal with the relgion and ideology conditions. Other argumentes accept marriage but deny adoption, because they rejects an non biological environment .The arguments  against homosexuality in general appear more resonable to extremist followers of religion and right-wing  politic, since not everyone is religious or right-wing it seems to be unfair that an agnostic or apolitic homosexual person who wants to get married and/or adopt a children could not because of a denying  rights law. It could also be argued that all individals should be free to decide to married or to adopt or both things and a society that denies this right is in a way interfearing with liberty. This topic is not widely studied because it has been analised few decades ago but when the time happens society in general will notice that what is really important is  the individual happiness.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

