
      The history of women's rights consists of many  political and social conquests made by women during more than two centuries. It was in 1792 when Mary Wollstonecraft wrote  the first feminist treaty  <Q> <R>. According to experts , the most significant issue in this conquest arose when women began to work outside the household and  started to participate in the labour market for paid employment. From that moment onward they had to combine their domestic and public life <R>. Nowadays, it is still  considered a piece of news in radio and television that a woman is awarded the Nobel Prize, is elected President of a nation or  passes the exams to become a firemen. So it seems that women in the 21st century have to deal with  difficulties in their working  life due to  their gender.  In this essay I will discuss different view points about the differences  between men and women in the labour market.
      To begin with, some people considered that women in general are underpaid <R>. According to a Unicef report, there is no equality in employment as earnings for women are lower than for men even in industrialized countries. This international organization points out that  <Q> <R>. In Spain men earn a forty percent more than women including any kind of job <R>. Some people could argue that those figures hide important facts and that the causes of this problem should be carefully analized. For example, part-time working is a cause of the pay gap between men and women <R>. There are many women that work part-time, so their incomes are lower. This fact can bias statistics as it does not mean that women are less paid, it  just means that some women work less hours. The problem with this argument is that part-time work also depends on the level of the qualifications. That is, part-time working  is related to lower levels of qualifications. Moreover, according to recent studies when men and woman have the same qualifications and work fulltime, men's incomes are a fifty one percent higher than women's (<R>. So lower qualifications is not the only factor for womens's lower incomes . In many jobs that require high level qualifications and provide higher incomes, it is not possible to work part-time. It is well known that  business executives, headmasters, presidents of companies and organizations .... are not allowed to work part-time. It is said that if women are employed the company benefits will be reduced. So governments should encourage politics to raise awareness against that argument and  employers should be aware of workers' rights and discrimination issues. In general it can be said that according to statistics women ,on average, are less paid than men. 
      Having in mind woman discrimination in the labour market, some people think that an effective strategy to promote equality of opportunity is through legislation. An example of this argument is a Spanish law usually known as 'Ley de Paridad'. The Spanish Labour Minister , Jesús Caldera, points out that the objective of this new law is <Q> . One of this positive actions is that  there must be a fixed percentage of men and women in electoral lists and in the State Administration <R>. However, some people would argue that women should work in high quality jobs due to their qualifications and 
professional values and not due to a law that imposes a certain number of women in , for example, electoral lists. An argument against this law is defended by Ana Pastor, a executive member of  the Spanish right wing party. She defends that  the effects of this law are perverse. The law is against common sense and although it seems at the first sight to promote women equality it can limit women's rights. Besides, it is against the principles of Spanish Constitution as the right of parties to select candidates is limited. She denounces the case of sixteen female candidates, members of  her party  in Canary Islands, that cannot be elected due to this law <R>. This argument may appeal to many people as citizens in general feel that politicians must be competent and honest without taking into account if they are male or female. If gender determines a fixed number of people we have the risk of missing competent people and including less expert ones.
      Another controversial aspect of women and work is how women deal with work and family life. In theory parents must balance their responsibilities but reality seems to be different. A recent study indicates that <Q> <R>. This situation implies that it is more difficult for mothers than for fathers to deal with paid work as they are responsible for a greater amount of tasks at home.  Some people could argue that women's amount of household is greater because if men do not perform household tasks perfectly women  prefer to carry out those tasks themselves. Besides, the commonest cause of disagreement between parents is the performing of household work. This point  is not realistic as nowadays women that spend a lot of time working when they go home they are looking forward to sharing household work for the sake of their family life. Probably, the key factor of the problem is  responsibility. Even in our modern society, men hardly ever assume their responsibility for household work while women generally do. Sometimes women feel obliged to choose between  family and working life. However men, do not usually abandon their working life. As an example, each year in Spain 380.000 women leave  jobs to take care of their families while only 14.500 do the same <R>.
      Another argument against work equality for men and women is that in many cases, due to their physical conditions, women cannot perform certain jobs. For example, some people defend that to become a miner or member of the army requires specific physical qualities that women do not have. On the other hand, feminist associations and some trade unions claim that women must have the right to access to any kind of job. Considering these two extreme positions the argument that may appeal to many people is that society should guarantee work equality taking into account that women, due to their gender, have special features as pregnancy, that must be protected. For example, employers are obliged to provide safe working conditions for pregnant women to improve the health and well-being of mothers. Also when the environmental conditions are harmful for  reproductive health or for breastfeeding the working woman is allowed to change her job. In this case, it is accepted that those initiatives due to  feminine characteristics do not mean work discrimination but a right to improve working women lives.
      In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments that show women discrimination at work in our society. For example, they are underpaid and they have to deal with a great amount of household work. At the same time women efforts to participate in the labour market have been successful.  It seems that new generations accept equality in education and in work opportunities as cultural changes have made them reject gender stereotypes. Educational programmes should encourage equality from childhood. However, one of the main problems that working women have to deal with is to balance work and family life. Men on their part have to be aware that sharing household work means assuming responsibilities and that both parents have the same right to spend their time on professional activities.Besides, governments, trade unions and employers must work together to carry out programmes to reduce gender discrimination and improve working womens's lives. 
      
      
