

      Dangerous driving seems to be a significant problem in our modern society. The United Nations point out that: <Q> <R>.  Besides, the United Nations Secretary-General  explains that the consequences of dangerous driving <Q> <R>. So in my opinion effective measures to prevent traffic accidents should be adopted. In this essay I will consider the significance of the problem. I will also discuss why young people are one of the main risk groups proposing some possible solutions.  	
      Sometimes statistics are considered a good method to settle the importance of a problem and I strongly believe they are very helpful in this case as they have an enormous impact on peoples's opinion. For example, experts use figures in traffic campaings to reduce traffic accidents. In Spain it is well known that the DGT always uses that method as drivers are remembered the number of people who have died on the roads. The  United Nations also use statistics to consider the magnitude of the problem :
Nearly 1.2 millon people worldwide die as a result of road traffic collision every year, representing more than 2.1% of global mortality, and comparable to the number of deaths caused by major killers as malaria and tuberculosis. Millions more are injured and often remain disabled for life <R>.
 This figures make us think that in our daily life, probably not being aware, we are dealing with one of the main causes of death. Driving is part of life especially  in developed countries where people  spend driving a great proportion  of their lives. So I think that statistics are crucial to raise awareness about the consequences of  dangerous driving.
	I believe that one of the most important factors of the problem is the group of people who belong to young age because they are causes and victims at the same time. Statistics say that <Q> <R>. Apart from these figures it is quite frequent to hear news about terrible accidents that involve young drivers and young passengers, that is young killers and young victims. Last October in Gwent, South Wales, four teenage girls were killed when the driver was showing off and  lost control of the car. None of the girls were wearing seat belts. The driver was only seventeen and had passed his test only three days before. He was charge of causing death by dangerous driving <R>. Considering these facts  drastic measures should be taken to change young drivers' behaviour. My view is that prevention is the best way as dangerous driving depends on many factors such as drink-driving , seat-belts, speeding, wearing helmets, use of child restraints,...etc. and many of these factors depend on people's attitudes. This means that family, teachers, mass-media, institutions, associations...etc, that is, society,  must work together to teach  people from childhood  that driving carefully is very important for people's life. In this context parents play an important role as children learn a lot of things  imitating adults. A study by Instituto Mapfre Seguridad Vial says:
<Q> <R>.
So if their parents always wear seats belts their children  will probably do the same. This is a way of   acquiring  one of the most important measures to prevent risky behaviours. According to experts <Q> <R>. Wearing the seat belt, driving at the appropiate speed,  using child restraints or wearing helmets are examples to demonstrate  how useful a correct attitude learnt from childhood can be in future. 
	Another key  aspect of this problem is drink-driving as it has close relation to young people. According to the Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo in Spain <Q> <R>.   I strongly believe that education is a very good way of prevention .Children must know how this drug alters senses and affects behaviour. So the risk of suffering a traffic accident is very high. If society provides them with good patterns to follow, they will imitate good behaviours. Campaigns against drink-driving promote  change of attitudes to improve safety and decrease risk factors <Q>. However other people think that a good method to attack this problem depends on laws. They consider that it is a successful strategy to have lower blood alcohol content limits for young or inexperienced drivers <R>. It seems that in some countries this measure has reduced accidents. In my opinion it has some disavantages. For example, apart from severe laws more policemen are necessary. So this possible solution is not immediate and costs a lot of money. However, it appears to me, that perhaps it could be a good decision in certain occasions. For example, in December 2000 in Devon police carried out an anti drink drive campaign because at Christmas many people were injured on the roads in alcohol related accidents. The Road Safety Officer says: <Q> <R>On that special occasion when the risk is higher that in other periods of the year the measure could improve statistics but if people are not aware of the importance of the problem and change their habits I think that  the consequences of drink-driving will appear again.
	Another view of this problem is that  children are killed in traffic accidents and their parents are responsible for their deaths. International organizations, as UNICEF, are dealing with this problem as more than 20.000 children aged 1-24 die every year in traffic accidents in  developed countries <R>. Personally speaking, I feel that although certain organizations  make some efforts to reduce the problem urgent actions must be promoted to change parents' driving habits . For example, the use of child restraints are highly effective at preventing fatalities among young infants and young children travelling in cars <R> but the 30 per cent of children travel in cars without the appropiate safety measures <R>. Parents must know and assume  the consequences of not using adequate child restraints. But when children safety is at risk I think that apart from prevention laws  must be enforced and penalties should be severe because in many cases children are passive persons that are affected by their parents' actions. Society should protect children from their parents' risky behaviours when they are driving.
	In conclusion, this essay has considered the significance of dangerous driving as it is a growing problem in modern society. As this problem has many aspects the essay has dealt only with the one that in my opinion is very significant. That is young people as drivers and victims. The possible solution that has been  explained is prevention. But to achive preventing traffic accidents among young people everybody has a role to play not only authorities. Politicians, parents, educators, associations, victims and their families,....must make efforts to reduce the problem. Fortunately, it seems that society  considers nowadays  that traffic injuries can be prevented. Some countries have shown  that taking action on key factors such as drink-driving, use of seat belts or child restraints a significant number of lives can be saved and resources spared, even as motorization continues to rise. Besides, one of the key messages of The United Nations is that road safety is no accident <R>.

 
