Immigration seems to be is a significant problem in Europe. This  phenomenon  has been present through human history. Nowadays, experts consider that economic factors  trigger immigration flows. Individuals from less developed countries escaping from poverty are attracted by developed countries with higher standards of living <R>. Besides, some countries such as Spain, Portugal or Italy have evolved from their  traditional role as sending immigrant nations to receiving foreign laborers <R>. Apart from that, recent studies demonstrate that  issues such as terrorism, unemployment and immigration have a great impact on Spanish citizens' lives <R>. In other European countries the immigration debate is also present as riots of 2005 across French suburbs show. On the other hand, some Europeans consider that living together with immigrants raises xenophobic behaviours that society has to deal with and besides, the immigrant population in general feel excluded of society  <R>.  In this essay I will discuss different view points about immigration. I will also give  my opinion about this  prominent matter in European countries.
	One of the most controversial aspects of immigration in Europe is how to deal with illegal immigration. Last year, in Brussels,  member countries of the European Union tried to promote a common immigration policy to encourage legal immigration. However, some leaders opposed to that strategy and pressed for border controls <R>. Godoy points out in his article that  Nicolas Sarkozy , the French leader, is against further immigration as he considers this phenomenon a threat for France <Q>. Moreover, Sarkozy  disagrees with massive legalizations of immigrants and supports expelling them from France. In my opinion immigration is not a threat for Europe due to demographic and economic reasons. European societies are getting older and immigrants are a source of young people for the labour market. This means that the economic system need immigrants' work. If Europeans want to receive a pension paid by the state they must assume that immigrants are necessary. However, personally speaking, I consider a good policy in some particular cases to select immigrants depending on their qualifications and on the receiving country labour necessities. For example, according to experts a shortage of workers in some jobs  have been observed in the Spanish labour market. In my opinion it could be a good policy to promote cooperation between developed and undeveloped countries trying to control the number of immigrants. The consequences would be a reduction on unemployment,  improvements on  their standard of living, sending money to their origin countries and at the same time filling the gap of the labour market in the destination countries. Moreover, this strategy would avoid  abuses on illegal workers. However, I completely disagree with hardening border controls to avoid illegal immigration. I strongly believe that escaping from poverty is a human right. People from poor countries are attracted by dignified living conditions in developed countries and border controls are not obstacles for their expectations. It could be a good solution, as some experts recommend <R> to improve people's life in their own countries. The French socialist Ségoléne Royal, pointed out in a television debate  that <Q>.
	Another view of immigration is immigrant integration in European society as high rates of immigration create new challenges and opportunities in local communities where they settle. According to experts integration is <Q> <R>. Experts also point out that regulated immigration effects are generally positive but complex because they create opportunities both for themselves and for the membesr of the communities where they live <R>. But this positive effect fails under two circumstances <Q>. My personal opinion is that this  argument deals with one of the key factors of immigration. That is, positive effects of immigration are related to regulated immigration and  promotion of newcomers' integration. I strongly believe that regulated immigration has a positive effect upon the labour market as  job gaps are filled and at the same time, in some cases, they create new jobs for both newcomers and hosts. Another positive effect when immigration is legal is that hosts consider immigrants new members of their society and tolerance among different cultures is raised. However, I think that the weakness of this argument is that it is a utopia. In most of European countries rates of illegal immigration are high and the consequences are negative. Local communities are not prepare to receive massive immigration. This means that, for example, health, education and social servicies cannot cope with these new challenges. This situation provokes that many immigrant workers and their families live in poor conditions. Besides, hosts complain because immigrants with low inicomes receive ecomomic help to improve their living conditions. This situation makes integration  more difficult as hosts sometimes consider this phenomenon a threat for their economy. At the same time immigrants are not satisfied and they feel excluded <R>. In my view the balance between hosts and newcomers' rigths is a crucial challenge for European societies and governments.
      One of the main arguments against immigration is that many people argue that illegal immigration is strongly related to crime. Recent surveys show that Spanish people consider that the increasing crime rates in Spain  are related to immigration <R>. Spanish government also accepts that situation as one out of three criminals in Spanish jails are immigrants <R>. My own opinion of this argument is that people in general consider  that crimes such as drug dealing, terrorism or prostitution are easily connected with immigrants because there is a strong social and political pressure on our society that highlights crimes when they are committed by alliens. For example, immigrant gangs attract people's  opinion as they are known by committing violent acts in the streets. However, I think that there is no enough reliable data to make immigrants resposible for the high crime rates present in European countries. Immigrants, in general, have to face adverse conditions when arriving in receiving countries. Many of them  speak a different language and have different cultural habits. Besides, some of them live in poor conditions. These factors provoke a tendency to crime and those crimes are emphasized by  people that consider immigration a threat for developed societies. According to some experts as Ramiro Martínez, Associate Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Florida International University in Miami <Q> <R>.
      In conclusion, some aspects of immigration in Europe such as how to deal with illegal immigration, immigrants' integration in European society and the realationship between immigration and crime have been presented in this essay. This issue is very complex and the debate seems to be present years ahead as poor countries are getting poorer while rich countries are getting richer. It is logical to think that people will try to escape from poverty. In my opinion, immigration should be a priority in European Union policy as the matter is increasing. This means that governments, citizens and insitutions have a role to play. Strategies to promote cultural tolerance among hosts and newcomers should be encouraged. Newcomers' rights such as children education and health care  must be protected. For example there should be specific programs to help children with adverse conditions such as different language or cultural habits unknown for them. Integration policies should be based on establishing dialogues between people with different view points. Positive aspects of immigration should be highlighted and negative ones, such as the relationship between crime and immigration, should be prevented. However, hosts' rights  must also be respected and immigrants should make effort to be integrated in the receiving countries. Europeans and newcomers must assume that there is  a transformation on  society and that mutual respect and help are the key factors to maintain tolerance.
      
      
      








