
In modern times, Science has advanced very much and has made huge progresses
 throughout the years. One of those advancements is the ability of cloning. Perhaps, 
one of the first thoughts that many people have when they hear about "cloning" is of 
horror movies where the creations of human monsters or superhuman soldiers with 
subhuman brains appear. Nonetheless, the reality is very different. The term "cloning" 
refers to three different procedures with three different goals: embryo cloning, adult 
DNA cloning (or "reproductive cloning"), therapeutic cloning (called "biomedical cloning" 
as well). "Embryo cloning" is a medical technique that is able to produce identical and 
indistinguishable twins or triplets. "Adult DNA cloning" is able to create a duplication of 
an existing being (for instance, Dolly, the sheep). And finally, the therapeutic cloning 
intends to produce a healthy copy of a sick person's tissue or organ for a transplant. 
However, all these advancements have created a great controversy. On the one hand, 
not everybody finds advantages in this recent discovery, since it can be considered 
something not ethic. On the other hand, there are many people who believe that this 
discovery is a great scientific advance and also a help for mankind. In this essay I 
intend to present the different opinions which people  -  Scientifics, liberal people, 
conservative people -   have about the topic of "human cloning", and show my personal 
critique too. 


Members of some religious groups, particularly Evangelical Christianity and Roman 

Catholicism believe that a soul gets into the body at the instant of conception, and that 

the zygote, that is to say, the fertilized ovum is a human being with human rights. They 

assert that cloning that embryo would interfere with God's will. Besides, the death of 

cloned zygotes after a few cell divisions is considered as serious as the death of a new 

born baby. The Family Research Council (FRC), a Fundamentalist Christian agency, 

also disapprove the use of cloning to remove and eliminate genetic defects of the 

fertilized ova in therapeutic cloning procedures, because one of the clones would die 

during the genetic testing. Since they regard each of the clones as separate human 

beings, this would be murder. The general feeling is that there is no guarantee that a 

cloned human will be a normal person. The fetus might suffer from some disorder that 

is not detectable. Cloned humans may be born disabled. Those disorders may appear 

later in life. Such problems have been seen in other cloned mammals, so there is no 

reason to assume that they will not happen in humans. Besides, it seems to be that the 

cloning technique could take many years off cloned people's life, so they would have a 

reduced life expectancy. Others are afraid of the effects that cloning may have on 

relationships. For example, a child born from an adult DNA cloning from his father 

would be a delayed twin of one of his own parents, and this fact may lead to emotional 

difficulties. Having regarded these opinions, I personally think that the issue of cloning 

has many disadvantages, but also it has some benefits. On the one hand, I do not think 

that the death of a zygote is as horrible as a well formed baby's death. The fertilized 

ovum is a microscopic particle that has no human shape, so for me it is not a person, 

even though it has some life, and I consider that talking about "murder" when a zygote 

dies may be exaggerate a bit. Of course a zygote is not something that completely 

lacks importance, since, anyway, it has life and one day it will probably become in a 

person, but if Scientifics use the therapeutic cloning method in order to make a copy of 

an organ for a transplant, if this is going to save the life of an existing individual, I 

strongly believe that this method has to be carried out. Scientific community state that 

this procedure would be able to save many lives and the life expectancy would 

increase. On the other hand, I see many disadvantages. It seems to me true the fact 

that if a person is cloned, the clone may born disabled or incapacitated, and that would 

be a trauma for the family. Some investigators argue that a series of defective clones 

is very likely to happen, and that would unleash a catastrophe.  




Scientifics and experts on this topic affirm that some talents can be transferred from 

parents to son through the cloning, for example, the musical ability. Cloning using the 

DNA from the cell of the father or mother with the desired traits or talents might 

produce an infant with similar potential, and this is something much demanded for 

many families. Others find the discovery of cloning very helpful, for instance when a 

heterosexual couple in which the husband is sterile could use adult DNA cloning to 

produce a child. An ovum from the woman would be coupled with a cell from the man's 

body. Both would contribute to the child, and they might find this more satisfactory than 

using the sperm of another man. This is also applicable for a couple of lesbians. They 

could have a child by adult DNA cloning rather than by artificial insemination by a 

man's sperm. Both of them could contribute in the formation of the zygote; one woman 

would donate the ovum, and the other woman the nuclear genetic material. Both would 

have parts of their bodies involved in the conception. Maybe they would find this more 

satisfactory than in-vitro fertilization using a man's sperm. A little group of people would 

consider this option when a beloved person dies. In this way, the clone would 

substitute the dead, and the suffering would disappear. Finally, the possibility of 

producing an organ to save the life of an individual who requires the transplant of that 

organ is one of the strongest arguments offered by the majority of people. Mortality 

may be reduced considerably and diseases could be fought with very positive results. 

Personally speaking, all these arguments appears to be convincing, although they have 

certain weaknesses. On the one hand, regarding the first argument, I think that we 

must accept our children as they come to this world, with their defects and virtues. If we 

begin to change genetically our children, asking for blue eyes and beautiful faces for 

them, or making them very talented and perfect, they would stop being our own 

sons. I would maintain that nature is the one which has to decide on this field. 
Members of Catholic Church and most pro-life supporters support this argument and 
state that nature, and God, are the only ones who has the right to decide on this issue. 
I also disagree with those who support the idea of a clone substituting a dead person. 
When someone dies, there is anybody who could substitute him or her. That clone 
at the bottom would not be the person who has passed away. Finally, as I have just 
said in the first body paragraph, I agree with therapeutic method because its goal is to 
save countless numbers of lives; if therapeutic cloning using embryos is successful, 
then those replacement organs could become freely available to sick and dying people.

 

There are other people who are partly in favor of cloning and partly against cloning. 
Within the whole issue of cloning, they agree with certain parts and disagree with
others. Researchers suggest that the general opinion of the population is that they 
disagree with the use of cloning for embryos and adult DNA cloning. They assert 
that there could be a health risk from mutation of genes. Scientifics has never tried 
cloning on a human being, and the result might be disastrous. Many attempts on 
animals produced disfigured monsters with abnormalities, so an attempt on a human
may have the same results. Likewise, a clone child probably would have emotional 
disorders, since, for instance, if he is the replica of a dead brother or sister, he or 
she probably feel much pressure knowing that is a replacement of another child. 
Anyway, this group of population finds so much advantage in therapeutic cloning. It 
will in time allow scientists to create organs that are a perfect match for those in 
need of a transplant. The cloned organ would not require the use of debilitating 
immunosuppressive therapies. There would also be no chance of rejection, which is 
fatal. Therapeutic cloning represents the ideal in organ transplantation, as it would 
provide an unlimited source of organs to anyone who needs them. For my part, I have to say that I completely agree with all these arguments. Personally speaking, I 
consider that it is too risky to experiment with human beings, since, if something 
goes wrong during the process of cloning, and the result is a person with lots of 
abnormalities a defects, that being would suffer a lot, and may die, or even it would 
be killed, and that is something really unfair, and I think that we have not the right of
playing with human lives in this way. Some people think that, even though the baby 
is born apparently normal, the abnormalities can appear later, in a few years. And 
we do not know how long he or she will live; maybe few years, or maybe not, but 
that uncertainty might be unbearable for the parents of the clone child. 


So then, we have seen that there are three types of cloning: embryo cloning, adult 
DNA cloning and therapeutic cloning. We have regarded throughout this essay the 
many varieties of viewpoints of different sectors of society, such as the scientific 
community or religious people. Conservative people consider this topic as 
something abhorrent at all aspects, while Scientifics believe just the opposite, and 
there is also some people who think that cloning is valid for certain aspects of life, 
such as therapeutic cloning, but they reject other uses of this discovery, such as 
embryo and adult DNA cloning. I believe that one day, technology will have 
advanced so much that Scientifics will begin to apply this technique to human 
beings, and perhaps society will begin to get used to human clones.  
 






