
These days we are hearing more and more that a woman has been murdered by her partner, or a girl has been raped, and so on. At least one woman in every three has been beaten - or even worse, killed  -  worldwide, and violence against women exists in every country, in every culture, religion, race, class, etc. For instance, concerning domestic violence, most often the abuser is her boyfriend, ex-boyfriend or husband. In this essay firstly I intend to show my own general opinion about this issue, and then to provide some solutions to this big problem which is more and more frequent.
 
First of all, I personally believe that this problem already exists in our society since women are considered by some people as weak and inferior. In some Islamic countries such as Iran or Iraq, the father and other elder male members in the family are among the first who commit the aggression against the women and young girls because there are consider inferior beings, and it is obligatory for them the use of the known clothing called "burka". This garment is really an offense for women, and it is considered a sort of tough violence, as it violates their rights.
On the other hand, as some experts say, the fact of considering women as inferior beings has to do with the education that some men have received from childhood. The way a boy is educated will set his future relationships with women.
Secondly, concerning the rape, most of the victims of rapists are women, since as I have just mentioned before, they are considered weak. Most experts believe the primary cause of rape is an aggressive desire to dominate the victim rather than an attempt to achieve sexual fulfillment. They consider rape an act of violence rather than principally a sexual encounter. But some men will rape a woman because they are ill in mind, and that is a bigger problem. 
 
Third, I personally think that women are not only physically ill-treated, but also mentally. The Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women (1993) defines violence against women as <Q>. At first glimpse, as we are get used to hear from television so many cases of domestic violence or murders of women, it seems that bad physical treatment is the worst, but it is more than just physical ill-treatment. Sometimes, mental ill-treatment is much worse than physical, and many women will commit suicide.

Next, I strongly believe that the government of the countries does not really provide effective solutions against this huge problem, and sometimes there is also negligent behaviour. According to some experts in this issue, 
Even though we all see in television campaigns against violence against women, and the "restraint orders" are imposed, the number of deaths does not fall. 
 
Thirdly, on the one hand, as one possible solution to this problem, I would say that for example, when talking about domestic violence, the men who beat or even kill his girlfriend or wife, apart from being in jail, they should assist to courses of re-education, whose main objective could be, among others, to show in some way that women are not inferior at all, we all deserve the same treat and the same respect, and nobody has the right of ill-treat anyone. But on the other hand, it seems to me that there are other men who ill-treat their partners because they are really crazy, have mental disorders or problems with alcohol, so it may be possible that no program of re-education could help them, so for all of those men I would simply make the suggestion of their admission and entry in a mental hospital, and there they would receive their corresponding treatment by specialised doctors in accordance with their specific mental diseases.
 
For those who have been reported to the police by women alleging ill-treatments, I strongly believe that it is not sufficient the fact of establishing only the restraint order. The woman would have a strong official protection as well, which ensures completely her very life. And concerning her aggressor, he should be strictly watched and guarded by a member of the police. It may seem a very hard measure, but nearly always the television talks about a woman that has been murdered by her ex-boyfriend or ex-husband in spite of being established a restraint order for him. It seems that in almost all the cases of a murder of a woman by her ex-partner, the restraint orders has not been kept and served. 
 
Next, concerning the problem of rape, I personally think that the fact that the vast majority of victims of rapists are women is due to women are considered weak. For this matter I would suggest three possible solutions. The first one deals with the fact that there is little security in the streets and in dark places, above all at night. Most of the rapes are carried out at night, in places with few or no people, and without vigilance. Maybe sending more security guards to almost all dark places, estates or housing developings, rapes would fall. The second measure that I would establish is, just as in the case of domestic violence, 
And in the case of the third one, I consider that most of beggar women who are alone and helpless in the streets are raped. It would be a good idea to build a sort of little houses to take them in, above all at night, as it is especially dangerous for women.
 
Now I am going to present a solution about the topic of violence against women in general, and it is useful and suitable for all of those who batter or ill-treat women, whether they are rapists, killers of girlfriends, etc. I think the problem is the education that we receive when we are children. If our parents educate us well from childhood, men will probably not have prejudices against women, and will treat them as well as they deserve. But this solution is not applicable to the Islamic world, as they have their own strict habits and costumes, and unfortunately their religion does not regard women, nor take them into account, and it is almost impossible that that situation changes. Even though, one possible solution to the violence against women of Islamic countries or African countries is to provide women well-trained lawyers who can help victims make informed decisions, so that women can rely on free public defenders who have far too many cases, and also free legal services for women, as in those countries of the third world women do not have economic resources. 
Another solution would be that those women rebel against that male chauvinist society, with the aid of some powerful organization, but this idea is quite utopian. 

Finally, I would argue that another way of powerful violence against women is prostitution. According to some experts, this is an abuse of a woman's body. A prostitute's homelessness, her namelessness, and the dominance and cruelty of men toward women in prostitution are abominable. Prostitution involves one gender's taking advantage of its superior social status and manipulating the other gender. Because members of this less powerful group are compelled or forced, physically or psychologically to engage in a sexual act, prostitution is fundamentally coercive and exploitative. But worst of all is sex trafficking is the process that delivers victims into prostitution. It includes the recruitment, harbouring, movement, and methods by which victims are compelled to stay in prostitution whether by violence, coercion, threat, debt, or cultural manipulation.
I strongly believe that we could reduce the number of victims of prostitution if the demand for them was penalized. And I am rather sure that if men do not find and buy sex acts, no women would be bought and sold. And of course if there were no brothels waiting for these female victims, no victims would be recruited. But again I am afraid ideas only belong to an utopian world. But at least, the government should ban and penalize prostitution.
To conclude, I will say that there are many ways of ill-treating women, such as domestic violence, or rape, etc. I have mentioned some solutions such as penalizing prostitution, or building more places to take beggar women in, or re-education programs or courses for men who ill-treat women. And I think that even though it is impossible to eliminate completely the violence against women, it is possible to reduce it, if governments provide efficient solutions.
 
 
 
 
 







