
In modern times homosexuality is being accepted more and more. Nowadays, many homosexual people make public their sexual condition and claim for their rights, such as being able to marry with a person with their same sex, and being able to adopt children. They also claim rights in housing, jobs, public accommodations, and should have equal access to government benefits and equal protection of the law. They want to live together as a family, without being discriminated by society. Even though there are several countries where same - sex marriage is legalized, sometimes homosexual marriages do not have the same rights as heterosexual ones; in fact, Canada and Spain are the only countries where the legal status of same-sex marriage is exactly the same as that of opposite-sex marriage. A multitude of discussions and projects have emerged in order to enable child adoption for couples of the same sex. New legislative measures could legalize already existing cases. As a matter of fact, a number of single homosexuals who have adopted children or who raise their own children stemming from a former heterosexual union live as a couple. However, their partner does not have a legal status as "parent".  In this essay I intend to offer, contrast and analyze a great vary of viewpoints from different perspectives of some social classes  -  Governments, religious people, etc - about this controversial issue.

Firstly, advocates of gay rights assert that marriage is a fundamental civil right and that no government should restrict the right of consenting adults from full rights in male-male, female-female, and male-female relationships. Supporters would also argue that gay people contribute as much as heterosexuals to the funding for private and public family coverage even when they have no access to it, so that a discrimination suffered by homosexuals could decrease productivity. These two arguments seem to make sense since nobody should meddle in somebody's happiness, and if a gay person is happy marrying another one of his same sex, this should not be a problem, because a gay marriage does not harm or prejudice anyone and is something which only concerns the two people involved.  
However, opponents to same-sex marriage affirm that marriage is a natural right based on the biological need of procreation, and that is not a civil right and can be restricted by law. They believe that the perpetuation of humanity depends fully on the ability of procreation, and insist on the fact that trying to equalize same-sex marriage legally will only create gross and huge social distortions, and this would establish the abysm between such law and the observable and evident facts of human nature. Opponents state as well that including same-sex couples in the definition of marriage breaks the principles of traditional understandings of marriage. Even though this viewpoint seems to be persuasive, it does have certain weaknesses. The goal of marriage is not just having offspring, but also the love between two people. Besides, there are couples who decide not to have children, so we could say that marriage is basically based on the love between two people, not in procreation. 
Nevertheless, some people who are not completely in favor of homosexual marriage nor against it would claim that gay people are human beings and should have the same rights as any other person; they deserve our respect, and should not be marginalized nor discriminated. But they consider that legalizing a homosexual marriage is too shocking for society, and we all may not be prepared for this, so most people believe that homosexuals could live together, but not to get married. This argument seems to make sense, because it is true that homosexuals are normal people although they seem weird or even wicked for some people, and deserve the same rights such as any human being. And it seems reasonable to consider the possibility that maybe a homosexual marriage could be shocking, above all for old people, and it would be a huge change in few time, that is to say, 100 years ago, if you were homosexual, you were discriminated and even you could go to jail, and now, suddenly, a gay wedding would be go to the opposite extreme.
 
Secondly, as members of Catholic Church point out, gay marriage cannot occur because the same gender couple can never consummate their marriage, it is essentially and intrinsically impossible because they cannot unify. They can never become one flesh. They also assert that the combination of their sexual organs can never produce children; in order to give birth children they are necessary two different organs, one masculine and one feminine, and homosexual couples have two organs that are the same so it cannot work. So they consider this kind of relationship as unnatural, obscene, repulsive an morally wrong. This point is rather convincing, since it is true the fact that a gay couple could not merge in one flesh, and they are not able to have descendants, but saying that a same-sex couple is repulse might be too exaggerated. It can argued that two people of the same sex can love each other, as any other heterosexual couple do, and there is nothing "repulsive" or wicked when two 
people love each other. It may seem to us weird, but it does not mean that it is abhorrent, obscene, detestable or repugnant. 
According to defenders of gay people, homosexuality is not a lifestyle choice, but a genetic predisposition, and as any others human beings, they must not be removed from the society and deserve exactly the same benefits and protections under the law as everyone else, such as the choice of getting marriage. This seems a logical point of view, because it is true that they deserve the same rights as anyone else, for in the end, we all are human beings. And concerning the point of considering homosexuality as a genetic predisposition, in some cases it probably be that, but in other ones it is a lifestyle choice.
Nonetheless, the general feeling about his issue is that gay people should have the same rights as anyone else, except when talking about marriage. It is not to say that gay people are incapable of loving each other as heterosexuals couples do, and it is not a question of discrimination, homophobia or hatred of gay people. They assert as well that marriage does not only consists of the love between two people, but also the complete consummation of the marriage; sexual intercourse is the sign of marriage and the act of sexual intercourse is the renewal of the covenant of marriage, so two same-gender people can never fully complete their marriage. This arguments seems to be rather persuasive, as it is true that homosexuals can never consummate their marriages and that is a very important point in a marriage, but it seems to be more important the love between two people rather than the consummation of a marriage, since, for instance, two people, a man and a woman who do not really love each other can consummate their marriage, but they do not really love each other. And a same-sex couple can love each other but not consummate completely their marriage, it would be more valid, because there are sincere love.

The third and the final point takes into account the issue of child adoption by a couple.  One the one hand, most people completely in favor of homosexual rights strongly believe that same-sex couples deserve and need the same rights, benefits and responsabilities as all other heterosexual families. Children of gay parents have grown up to become healthy, normal citizens. Furthermore, there are hundreds of thousands of gay couples willing to adopt, and millions of children worldwide in need of love and protection. This viewpoint is more or less convincing, as it is true that it is better for a child being adopted by a homosexual couple who is completely capable of providing him love and keeping him up, rather than never being adopted by anyone, but it could be considered that most children could suffer because society is not already prepared for this kind of situation, that is to say, seeing for example two women who are couple with a baby.
On the other hand, gay adoption opponents also argue that children with gay or lesbian parents will become gay, or develop terrible psychological problems.  According to the American Family Association, children of same-sex parents parents are exposed to this gay lifestyle, so this particular situation could increase children's exposure to mental illness, life-threatening disease, plus the documented risk that the children themselves will be more likely to engage in homosexual behavior as adults. The problem with this argument is that it seems very exagerated to say that adopted sons of same-sex couples may develop dreadful psychological problems or mental illnesses. Adopted sons may suffer with that situation, as it could be considered weird for the society we live in, but not something so overdid such as the possibility of developing a mental disease. 
We can also observe other opinions about this issue. Some people believe that homosexuals should have the right of adopting a child; not a baby, nor a ten year old boy, but older boys, such as a 15 year old boy who does not care having same-sex parents, being homosexual or heterosexual. This could be a realistic perspective since, in this way, the possibility of the suffering of kids who may feel embarrasment because of their parents and suffer the mockery of other people dissapears. But the weakness in this point of view is that is a little bit idealistic and utopian, because the majority of kids who wait for being adopted are not so old, and it appears to be that not so many kids will choose voluntarily being adopted by a homosexual couple.
To sum up, we have seen the many different points of view about homosexuality, focusing on marriage and child adoption above all. This topic is very controversial becuase is something very new and recent for our society. I think that this kind of situation is being accepted more and more, since if such a big change has been produced in 50 or 100 years - some years ago, homosexuals were highly discriminated or even punished -, perhaps in some years, same-sex marriages and gay adoptions could be seen as something normal.
 
 
 
 
 
 






