In our present society drink driving is a very popular topic. There are many car accidents because of drivers drink alcohol beverages before driving, many people die or have health problems.
D.V.I.( Driving under the influence of alcohol, drunk driving, drinking and driving), is the act of operating a motor vehicle (and sometimes a bicycle or similar human-powered vehicle) after having consumed alcohol (ethanol) or other drugs, to the degree that mental and motor skills are impaired.  Drunk driving is a crime in most countries around the world.
However, although D.V.I. has a lot of consequences and causes many problems, in this essay I will only consider opinions about the reason why people should not drink if they drive. Moreover I intend to argue some of the problems that drink driving can cause and how it can be solved. 
In my view drink driving is one of the most serious problems.  I am against people who drink driving, as I will try to show in this essay.

Firstly, I think that drink driving is very dangerous because many people can die. It is important to say that one alcohol-related death occurs in the United States every 30 minutes, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).
Alcohol was involved in 41 per cent of all crash fatalities in 2006.
My personal opinion is that when a person drinks alcoholic drinks, he is not himself because drinking alcohol drinks helps to stimulate, It is the reason why some drunk drivers dare to do some things which they would never do if they had not been drunk. I tend to believe that when people are drunk they are not aware of danger.
Some people believe that these accidents happen when people drink very much, they argue that the legal limit for drunk is very low because it is a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) level of 0.5. A woman can reach a 0.5 BAC level after only two drinks and a man can be at 0.5 after only four drinks. A "drink" is either one shot of liquor a five ounce glass of wine or one beer, all of which contain the same amount of alcohol. These people tend to believe that when they drink a "drink", they are not drunk, so they can drive without any problem.
These drivers think that the level is very low; moreover they explain us that in spite of beating the level of alcohol, they can drive without any problem. Moreover some young people argue that they need drink to enjoy, so drivers have alcoholic drinks because their friends do, if drivers do not drink, they are not integrated with their friends, the drivers sometimes drink alcoholic beverages to maintain bright.
People, who argue it, think that when they drink a "drink", they are not drunk, so they can drive without any problem.
Speaking personally, I feel that they are wrong, because some experiments have demonstrated that people exhibit some loss of judgement, for example begin to relax and feel good. But tests have also shown that drivers at the 0.2 level experience a decline in visual functions, affecting their ability to track a moving object, and experience a decline in the ability to perform two tasks at the same time. It appears to me that it is not sure because although they are not drunk, they do not have the ability to drive well. Although 0.2 affect very little, it is very dangerous, because they can confuse and they can loss control. In my opinion accidents can happen if they drink "a drink" because drivers are not capable of being concentrated. In addition, I believe that if every friend want to drink any "drink", they should use public transport, for example a taxi. Although it is expensive, I think that if they have money to have some drinks, they can take a taxi. Another idea could be "sharing a car" I want to say that each person has to drive a day, the person, who drives, can not drink any alcohol drink. Regarding maintaining bright, nowadays there are some drinks without alcohol which you can drink if you want to be awake.

Secondly, I believe that another people, who are not to blame, can suffer the consequences of a drunk driver. Drunken driving accidents represent 39 % of all traffic deaths. What's worse is that injuries and death caused by drunk drivers are entirely preventable. Unfortunately many negligent or careless individuals continue to drink and drive. In addition, according to a study conducted by Kero Corporation World Headquarters in Arizona, an average 275.000 people are injured or disfigured by alcohol impaired drivers. One-third of these are children, which proves that drunk drivers do not only hurt themselves but that they hurt innocent people as well. I think that we should be aggressively pursue claims against drunk drivers responsible for serious injuries and death. In some places, drunk driving victims are not limited to pursuing claims arising from the negligence of drunk drivers. In spite of driving while intoxicated can be very harmful to your health, because it can kill you, another problem is that you can kill an innocent person, who happens to be near you in the road while you are acting irresponsible. You are an irresponsible person, because you drink and you chose to drive a car. You take a risk your life and those who are around you. In my opinion, I consider that is unfair that a family, who is in road, can die or have an accident because a person decided to drive drunk. For me this person is a criminal because he is the responsible for the deaths. I think that is very unfair because, every day, men and women go off to work and young people head out to schools all expecting to return but if they are in the road with a drunk driver, they will never come home without any blame. They have to suffer that the drunk driver drove after drinking, also the victims have to suffer the consequences that a driver got drunk to enjoy without thinking about the others. Next, It seems to me that drunk drivers should think that when they drive a car, they are not alone in road so they can not confuse because they are risking many lives. In my personal opinion drivers who exceed the level of alcohol should be withdrawn licence to drive.
It is possible to argue that there are many accidents which are not related to drink driving, in these accidents innocent people can die, for example driver who uses the mobile phone. Moreover in some accidents drink driving, the person who dies is the driver, it can explain that he chooses his own death. Some people think that the drunk driver feels very bad when he collides with another car because It suffers the accident without any fault, another people argue that when the driver is aware of accident, they can have many mental problems, because he is the only guilty of accident, so these people believe that they needn't go to jail or pay a fine. These people think that withdrawing the licence is not needed. They think that those people whose job is driving (taxi drivers, bus drivers), though they exceeds 0.3, they should not be withdrawn the licence because they can not live without their job.
For my part, I believe that although some accidents are not related to drink driving, I think that every accident should be avoided. According to the argumentation of the mobile phone, I want to say that its use is forbidden, I think that the use of mobile phone is a risk while we are driving, but we can use without any problem if we stop to phone. It is very useful if we need call somebody when we have a problem in road. Furthermore I tend to believe that accidents drink driving can be avoid, because the driver is the only one who can decide if he wants to drink or not. I maintain that life is very important, so people who drive drunk should not play role in death. It is true that many times the driver is the most affected but it is not always the same situation. Moreover the driver has to think about his family or people who love him. In addition he should think about the consequences not only about himself but also another person who is in his car and without any reason he was prejudiced, for example the victim can die, or he has health problems, or disabled.
My personal opinion of the punishment argument is that if the driver kills another family or he is guilty of accident, he has to respect his punishment. I agree that he will suffer it for ever and I know that he will have moral problems and maybe he needs a psychology to help him. Personally speaking, I consider that depends on the accident he should pay a fine or go to jail, because I think that nobody has the right to decide when a person has to die. I consider very important that the driver serves punishment because the driver should learn that he should not drink if he wants to drive. Furthermore the victim is not to blame of suffering an accident, he will have many mental problems without any reason because the victim drove very safely and he suffered the consequences of the others. The victims should have psychological and economical needs. In my opinion both of them suffer problems about the accident, but the difference is very important because the driver could have avoid it, I think that he committed a crime and he has to pay for it. I strongly believe that everyone who exceeds limit alcohol should have the same punishment, because people whose job is related to driving should respect the law, since most people can not drink alcohol drinks while they are working.


Thirdly, some people think that although some drivers drive when they drink any alcoholic beverages, they are not drunk. They think that each person has different capacities to react because alcohol affects individuals in different ways. They argue that it depends on age, sex, experiences, weight. People under 25 years old and older than 60 years old are more vulnerable. Regarding sex, a woman who drinks the same drinks than a man, she is more affected because of weight. The experience is very important, because a learner can have more difficulties to react in case that he has an accident than an experienced driver. Moreover the amount of alcohol in your body depends on other factors including how much you have drunk, whether you have eaten, and what you have been drinking.
These people feel that the limit of alcohol should be different because each person is different.
However, in my view it is true and important, but I think that having different levels of alcohol is very difficult because police should have a lot of machines to know the level of alcohol since they need different machines to control the weight, the moment of the day...
Moreover I consider that it would be impossible because two people who have similar characteristics (age, weight, sex) can be affected in different way, it depends on the day. So the result would not be objective. Regarding to the part of the day, it is true that while you have lunch you can drink a glass of vine without any problem, because the alcohol and the food are mixed. Personally speaking, I think that this idea of limit variation alcohol will be very expensive and will not precise, because the machines would depend on some varieties, for example food that a person eats.
Moreover tests will be a process very slow, because police should have different type of tests.
In my own opinion, I think that we should be responsible and control ourselves because driving a car is very serious. In addition I believe that we should know our capacities and we ought to obey law. I strongly believe that drivers should not be worried about what they have to do to avoid a punishment. They should make themselves aware of dangerous to drive after drinking.


So then this essay has considered different opinions about drink driving and consequences. We have dealt with different opinions for example, drivers should not drink alcohol drinks because there are many accidents, drivers can die, innocent people can die because of drunk drivers and the opinion about levels of alcohol, in spite of alcohol affects in different ways is very difficult to have some test.
Having described the problems and the consequences of driving drunk , my own opinion is that if we drink we should not drive because many people can die or have accidents, so I consider that if we drunk drive we are to blame of accident. In addition, I believe that if you like drinking something to have lunch for example a beer or a glass of wine you can do, but you have to be responsible and you must know your possibilities. To sum up I want to say that drink driving is very dangerous so when we drive we have to be sure that we will not have any danger.

























