
In modern times there are some gays and lesbian rights which homosexual didn't have years ago, it means that society is changing. Homosexual is defined as a person who is sexuality attracted to people of their own sex. Homosexual has long been a problem in some parts of the world. The situation has recently got better with the new laws. However, although there are many consequences of heterosexual rights because of people who disagree, this essay will only consider the most popular rights, because many people argue that they have to be the same rights since all citizens are equal. 
In this essay I will discuss about marriage and adoption rights, because it is recently but there are different opinions.

One of the most important laws for the homosexual is the right to get married, same-sex marriage according to wikipedia  is a term for a governmentally, socially, or religiously recognized marriage in which two people of the same sex live together as a family. Other terms for this type of relationship include "gay marriage",  "lesbian marriage," "homosexual marriage," ... This law was approved on 29th june 2005 in Spain, It was equel in Holland, Belgium, Canada. In "El Mundo" on 30th June 2005  is explained that there are another places that accept the union between couples with the same sex but they don't use the word "marriage" to define this engagement. Some writers believe that law has the effect of eliminating discrimination; they consider unfair that heterosexual can choose with the person who they want to get married and homosexual can't. These writers think that homosexual people ought to have the same rights. Mr. Zapatero said that he wants to fight discrimination against, because Zapatero doesn't understand what kind of love is this that excludes those who experience their sexuality in a different way. He says that he was aware that this measure is one of the most controversial we have approved.. but  we cannot deny a right to many of our compatriots when the exercise of that right does not harm anyone else. Some people might claim that love is such a positive energy and when two people who love each other so much, they want to make it a legal, public declaration; a binding commitment that can't be easily disregarded....It is possible to argue that the importance of marriage is that people do it because they love without caring about the sex, some of the evidence shows that there is physical abuse because some people don't get married because they love themselves, they get married because they have to do (interest marriage, or because they have a baby and they need rights for this baby) .As American Psychiatric Association points out gay men and lesbians are full human beings who should be afforded the same human and civil rights. In addition The American Psychological Association proposed a similar measure their endorsement, which supported gay marriage, gay foster parenting, and gay adoptions, was based on recommendations from the APA's Working Group on Same-Sex Families and Relationships. Some people seems to believe that they should have freedom to choose the person who they wants to share the rest of their life, these people argue that it is very important that they feel very good with their couple, because it influences in their own lives, if they are happy with their couple, they will feel very good with themselves and they can work without any worries about their personality life. Furthermore, this group of people who agree with this right maintain that people should get their happiness, so they consider that if they are happy with a person with their same sex, it is the best idea to live. According to the divorce law, these couples will have more advantages that the heterosexual ones, because in the heterosexual marriages, there are many differences with the woman and men, depending the gender, woman usually have more advantages that the man, it will be different with homosexual marriage, because they have the same sex, consequently they don't have any difference regarding whose is the flat if they divorce,.....both of them will have the same benefits and the same problems.
There are some arguments against this law, one of the most important influences of this right is the church which strongly disagree. They defined marriage as a traditionally heterosexual institution. They consider that marriage is the formal union of a "man" and a "woman" by which they become husband and wife. It has been suggested that although homosexuals love, they can't get married because this word is precise to explain that the union is between men and woman, it means that marriage properly belongs to the heterosexual community.  Some people would argue that marriages are for procreation and ensuring the continuation of the species, they argue that homosexual couples can't have children in the natural way, so these people consider that marriage isn't needed for gays and lesbians. The general feeling of the Vatican is that same-sex unions is "gravely immoral" because they think that marriage is holy, while homosexual acts go against the natural moral law, The Vatican believes that legal recognition of homosexual unions or placing them on the same level as marriage would mean not only the approval of deviant behaviour but would also obscure basic values which belong to the common inheritance of humanity. Real Americans indicates that being gay or lesbian is not natural, they would claim that legalizing gay an lesbian marriage will open the door to all kinds of crazy behaviour. They consider that homosexual marriage will change the foundation of society,  and we could never adapt to new social norms .Moreover a recent  catholic study indicates that in 1973, the American Psychiatric Association removed homosexuality from its list of diagnostic disorders. In retrospect, this decision appears to have been inspired by political pressure rather than medical evidence. Homosexuals of both sexes remain fourteen times more likely to attempt suicide than heterosexuals and 3½ times more likely to commit suicide successfully. Study after study shows that male and female homosexuals have much higher rates of interpersonal maladjustment, depression and conduct disorder.
It is apparently true that marriage is a term which was used for union between man and woman, but society has changed, some researchers believe that it could be because they didn't think about in the future people with the same sex will be able to get married. Moreover is widely accepted that marriage is for procreation but there are some people who are male and female and they can't have children, because they are infertile, but they don't have any problem to get marry because they are man and women. Furthermore, a study realized in Spain in 2004 indicated that Spanish people were in favour of homosexual marriage because 74,8% thought that homosexual should be the same rights to the marriage, and they should be respect the laws of the marriage equal way of  heterosexual marriage. It has been suggested that problems in marriage are not because of homosexual or heterosexual marriage, this problems depend on each person, it is independent about sex. In addition, it is seems generally that rights in the bible hasn't change for years, and some rights are very extremist, but religious people have their rules and people who want to belong this institution have to respect.

On the other hand, a recent right for homosexual is about children adoption. According to the BBC News, elsewhere in Europe, homosexual couples are allowed to adopt children in the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden, as well as in England and Wales. The new law grants them the same adoption rights as heterosexual couples, but in Germany and Denmark, homosexual adoption is limited to the partner biological children.  Many gay and lesbian people are choosing to become parents. Some bring children with them from previous relationships or some couples impregnate through artificial insemination. Others are finding adoption to be their preferred method of bringing a child into their family. Since state laws vary on adoption rights, not every gay and lesbian person has the same ability to adopt. To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of homosexual adoption. All of the research to date has reached the same unequivocal conclusion about gay parenting: the children of lesbian and gay parents grow up as successfully as the children of heterosexual parents. In fact, not a single study has found the children of lesbian or gay parents to be disadvantaged because of their parents sexual orientation. Many people, who agree it, say that there are many children who need a home to live, they need a family, these people think that home environments with lesbian and gay parents are as likely to successfully support a child's development as those with heterosexual parents. Moreover they think that good parenting is not influenced by sexual orientation. Rather, it is influenced most profoundly by a parent's ability to create a loving and nurturing home -- an ability that does not depend on. When children are alone, they need affection, loving care, they don't mind about their adoptive are homosexual or heterosexual because the most important for them is to be loved. In addition, adoptive wants to be the best for their sons, and there is no evidence to suggest that the children of lesbian and gay parents are less intelligent, suffer from more problems, are less popular, or have lower self-esteem than children of heterosexual parents. These children are good with their parents, it is the most important since the children of lesbian and gay parents grow up happy, healthy and well-adjusted.
Some arguments against homosexual adoption are maintained, mostly by people who think that homosexual people have many problems, because they don't know about their sexual orientation and by religious people. Peter De Crem (head of the Flemish Christian Democrats in the lower house) seems to believe that every child has the right to a mother and a father. He thinks that a man and a woman living together is the best basis to educate a child, because they can identify with them in the future and they will act in the same way that their parents do. Studies indicate that children in homosexual households are four times more likely to identify as homosexual or get involved in homosexual behaviour than children raised in single-parent households. Doctor Carlos Marina (paediatrician specialist) points out that homosexual adoption is bad for children because, they grow up in an anomalous environment. They are different to the rest people in school because he will have two same sex parents, some children can laugh at them, and they can be discriminated, consequently it causes psychological problems. Rafael Navarro argues that each child has to learn different behaviour about mother and father, because their personalities and their conducts are different.
There are other points that, which depend on situations, it is reasonable to argue that motherless or fatherless grow up without both role but it is a different situation because it was against their parents will. Some people think that these children don't need the role of both because they met their mother or father, and they can develop mother or father behaviour. It has been suggested that there are many children who are starving and they need a place to live .Some people would argue that homosexual should adopt these children who have many problems, and that thanks any aids can survive.


To conclude this essay has considered two important rights to homosexual people, marriage and adoption. We have dealt with many arguments both defending and condemning these new rights. Some of them deal with the church thoughts which are against, because this institution considers that homosexual marriages are unnatural, they disagree with the idea of adaptation because they think that children need a mother and a father. Other deal with some associations that agree, they seem that each person have to choose his or her partner, in relation to children these people argue that children need loving care what homosexual can offer them . Considering all these points, it might be reasonable for homosexual to go on fighting to have more rights and to fight for the equal rights and possibilities. 



































