
      In our nowadays society, there can be many reasons to wait until marriage to have sex but there can also be many other reasons to have pre-marital sex. Waiting until marriage to have sex relations with your partner can be very important, but only (focusing on people who live in Spain and America) if you believe in God and follow the Bible's instructions. Catholics believe that it is better to wait, and atheists, perhaps, laugh at this. Waiting until marriage to have sex is the best way to enjoy life as God intended. This is the opinion of these Christians, who really think that waiting is the best option because God said that in the Bible. These group of people also argue that there are good reasons behind God's instruction which improves relationship building and also safeguards our physical, mental and spiritual health. Nevertheless, many people think that if you are mature enough to handle having sex, then it does not matter whether you are married or not. These other group of people argue that sex is just a natural thing. Evolution made humans so that they would like sex and therefore, have sex in order to reproduce, and thus, having sex before or after marriage is a necessity for the continuation of life. If one feels comfortable with their partner and perfectly understands the consequences that having sex could cause, there seems to be no reason for waiting until being married. But, a third group of people argue that to have sex before marriage is better only under some circumstances. The important matter is to be with the person you love. If one is engaged and has future plans of getting married, it could be interesting having sex before it to see if the sexual relation works or not. In a relationship sex is really important as well as having a good communication and respecting and understanding eachother. In this essay, I intend to consider the different points of view that people have concerning the fact of having sex before or after marriage.
	Firstly, people who believe in God's rules, which are catholics, think that sex must to be done after marriage. In Spain there is also an ethnic minority of people called gypsis who have their own rules and one of them is to remain virgin until the wedding day. According to Kidson, John:  <Q>. Another possible argument in favour could be the fact that abstinence from sex until marriage is a key for building intimate and long lasting relationships. It draws two people closer together emotionally and is a special time when each person can spend time getting to know one another. Another possible argument against sex before marriage could be that the desire to avoid sex before marriage encourages self control which ultimately demonstrates trust to a partner. It is apparently true that sex before marriage has become so common for many reasons. Sex is pleasurable. God designed it that way. He wants men and women to enjoy sexual activity (within the confines of marriage). However, the primary purpose of sex is not pleasure, but rather reproduction. God does not outlaw sex before marriage to rob us of pleasure, but to protect us from unwanted pregnancies and children born to parents who do not want them or are not prepared for them. After having gone through all these arguments it seems reasonable to say that there are many reasons as protecting the children from parents that do not want them, to follow God's rules. All these arguments seems to be very convincing, but it has to be said that only a minority of the population follow them. What's more, one could argue that gypsis have to follow this particular rule of remaining virgin to be able to get married and have a family, because if they do not wait until marriage to have sex, the family of the gypsi woman would have a great loss of prestige.
	Secondly, there is another group of people which are the majority of the population of America and Spain, who believe that there is no need of getting married to have sex and enjoy life. Nowadays, it seems generally accepted that couples live together and have a family without being married, many times because they do not know the benefits of a marriage, or just because they prefer that lifestyle. Some researchers like Jayson S. who wrote an article on premarital sex, proved that:  <Q> Furthermore, Spanish and American people who do not believe in God , in other words atheists, are clearly going to think that waiting until marriage to have sexual relations is something non-sense. It could be argued as well, that getting to know each other before the marriage can be very helpful, because sex is really important as well as many other things like respect and understanding. It should also be considered that it can also be better to have some experience before getting married so that any member of the couple could think how it would be to have sex with another person. These arguments are quite convincing and show that nowadays in the 21st century most of the population of America as shown in that study and of course of Spain have sex before marriage and think it is better that way. As an study made in Spain in August 2007 by "Andalucía liberal" says, the majority of the population of Spain (73.8%) declared themselves as catholics and only 9.7% as atheists. So it seems quite surprising having those statistics of pre-marital sex in America where, according to Robinson, B.A., the percentage of catholics was 77% in 2001 , nearly the same as in Spain (73.8%), and in America in 2001, 95% of the inhabitants had had pre-marital sex. This arguments however suggest that many people nowadays, although being catholic, have sex before marriage.
      Thirdly, there is another group of people who would argue that there is not a necessity of getting married to have sex, it would be enough to have future plans with the person you love and think of the couple as a unit. It seems agreed that once the couple is stable, living together and thinking of a possible marriage, having sex would be fine. It appears that it is very difficult to buy a house or a flat where a couple could develope into a family, so this also seems to be another difficulty for couples who wish to get married and go living together. These arguments are very important because  at the same time, evidence shows that people are waiting longer to marry; According to Finer, L.  <Q>. These argument is very reasonable and probably a lot of people in this group are catholics who in the survey said that the practiced pre-marital sex. In addition to this, it could be argued that getting married is very expensive for the youth, so there are lots of people engaged and who love eachother that will probably get married in the future but that are also going to have sexual relations while waiting for their wedding day.
	In conclusion, I have gone through a lot of arguments which defend or attack the fact of having sex before marriage. There are people who defend strongly that waiting until marriage is the best option as God told us in the Bible, and they support their own believes with the references that one can find in the Bible. The second viewpoint explained in this essay is of those who really believe that having some sex experience is really beneficial for the couple and future husband and wife. Getting to know each other and see how your parter is, is a lot better than finding it out once you are married. They defend their view with good arguments and statistics that support it. It is quite interesting that most of the population of America and Spain consider themselves as catholics but the important fact is that although they say they are catholics, the majority of them had practiced pre-marital sex as statistics show. An of course, the third group of people are the ones who argue that having sex before marriage is fine but only under some circumstances like being in love with the person you share your life and having future plans like getting married some time. Those facts could be argued to be enough to have sex before marriage and not feel any kind of remorse. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable to understand practicing catholics who are completely against sex before marriage as well as catholics who have pre-marital sex only because they can not afford a wedding but their ideas of a family are the same.







