
      In the past, society believed that the ideal way to end up with crime was to hung the criminal to death, but, as we moved on in time people have been looking for a better form of punishment, everytime trying to improve the system to have a more efficient one. Nowadays, we can see how the evolution of punishment has taken place. Later in time the better punishment was to imprison the criminal in a cell of no more than two metres square so that they would have time to think of what they have done to be locked up and the reason why they are there. Also they would at least feel that what they made was completely wrong. Obviously, as we moved on in time, the prison system has been changing a lot for the benefit of the criminal; nowadays you can find cells with televisions, books, and prisons with  big gyms and places to walk for these inmates who are sentenced and put into prison because they have killed, robbed, hurt....someone. And  very little for the real problem of these people, rehabilitation, because they would have to have contact with society as soon as they get out. In this essay I intend to consider some of the reasons why in my opinion, the prison system is not working properly nowadays and show that it could be effective if set up correctly.

      First, my own view is that the prison system is nothing further away than a warehouse to store criminals until they are released. Most of the time the criminals are so angry about being locked up that they sit and plan for hours what they will do when they get out, instead of think of what they have done to be locked up. I personally think that one can't make a person change if they do not want to change or are not ready to change just by locking them in a diminutive cell as it happens in some countries. Here in Spain everything is so different, even terrorists have their own television in their cells and of course have the facilities of studying a degree while being locked up for murder, something that a lot of people can not afford. I strongly believe that if they have no skills and no job prospects when getting released, they normally will go back to the same old routine, and of course the fact of having been locked up for a long time would have its negative consequences while being out of prison.
      On the other hand, very few people like  Dr David Green, think that anti-prison campaigners are fond of claiming that jail does not work, and pointing to the high levels of re-offending among ex-convicts but they believe that when a criminal is locked up, it is physically impossible for him to commit any offences.
      However, just by saying that prison works because while criminals are locked up they can not harm anybody is not enough, because those criminals will get released one day, and then the percentage of re-offending is very high in all the world, and I would maintain that helping them getting some skills is the best way to help them.
      For example as Timothy Ore and Astrid Birgden criminologists think and I also agree with them <Q>. It seems that evidence from a wealth of studies shows that the risk for re-offending is modifiable when such programmes are delivered. For example, recidivism rates in serious or persistent young offenders can be reduced by 40% in community treatment and 30% in institutional treatment.

      Secondly,  some people argue that prisons are much more efficient at rehabilitating criminals than the community. Especially as community rehabilitation schemes are often based on nothing more than a one-hour weekly meeting with a probation officer, and that rehabilitation can take place only over a long period in prison, where the inmate can receive intensive supervision, mentoring and counselling. Moreover, they also think that prison can also ensure an inmate receives perhaps, for the first time in his life, a decent education. 
      However, it's normal that criminals become worse and worse while being locked in their cells, so many times, because their cell-neighbour has done something worse than them and violence is what they learn and what they see everyday. So personally speaking, I feel that prison is not the better place to get a decent education in any aspect as some people think. It appears to me that politicians are not trying to solve the problem and do the things right as they should be doing, some politicians think that just by sending people to prison the problem is solved, and they also define prison as  <Q>  and to top it all do not want to build more prisons, so what they say it's very contradictory, but they won't do anything to end up with the problem. Of course I believe that politicians try to do their best, but only when speaking or when the elections are near. Also, as Daniel Finkelste says in The Times,  <Q>.  It seems to me as if they did not want to face up to reality and see that the problem is much more important than what they think.
       So, in addition, I would suggest that more prisons are not the answer to rehabilitate criminals. I think that being locked up for a really long time can be a good punishment but never the answer to the problem. To me, humans are in the world to communicate to other people and learn how to be a good person and I believe that psychologically, for all the inmates and their families, the fact of not being free is going to lead to the madness of most of them, and could be the reason of serious problems for the families; problems like not having money to eat because the person who brougth the money home is imprisoned and the children would have to do whatever to get some money, like stealing or robbing, so it would be a circle all the time. Obviously, the very dangerous criminals should not go out of prison, because they probably will re-offend, but it would be important for them to receive visits from members of their families, psychologists, doctors and be punished with works. It is also remarkable that the concern about the prison system is particularly strong among women. Statistics show that only 40% think the government should aim to send more convicted criminals to prison, against 57% who want to see other, non-custodial forms of punishment. It appears to me that nowadays more and more people agree with the statement  <Q>.
      Thirdly, In my opinion the guard system needs to be restructured as well. I also think that the system is not working because in some prisons the guards are really bad at their jobs and because of the fact that they are sometimes blackmailed by the criminals imprisonned, who are very violent people. It is really dangerous for any guard of any prison in the USA to do anything. They know very well that they are threatened to be killed by the gangs that are outside in places like South America, and  who could kill these guards just for revenge. And in my opinion what is worse, is that the guard's families are also threatened, so in a way, always the innocent who are getting the blame and the guards treat the most violent criminals, with fear.
      On the other hand, a lot of people think that the work they do is really necessary for us, because without these guards, prisons would not be able to work at all.
      However, it is obvious that a reform in this system must be done, because it is not fare that a guard could make over $100,000 in a year in the USA just by being sit on a chair and dealing with dangerous people, an amount of money that even being a professional with a doctorate in any field would not get. I strongly believe that it is a very dangerous job, but to be well done, to be done with no fear and with initiative and self-confidence, not like some guards do, who just accept the blackmails of the criminals when being threatened.
      To conclude, we have seen the most important problems which in my opinion show that the prison system is not working and that it can be effective with new measures. I think  that the main problems are that prison is nothing more than a quick-fix solution and does not address the offender's behavioural problems. Within the framework of a system that is inefficient and overcrowded the prisons nowadays are only a way to store criminals and have them controlled until they are released. Moreover, I think that one can not make anyone change by putting them in a cell, if they do not want to change their conduct. In Spain it is amazing how terrorists of ETA are treated in our prisons, they can even have more privileges than any other inmate, and that makes people not afraid of going into prison. In addition the goverment is not trying to solve the problem which could be solved by introducing rehabilitation programs so that the inmates would be able to get a job when getting out of prison and not make the same mistake that led them to jail. What's more, the guards system in some countries must be changed aswell, because in my view, they should not be scared of the inmates and work in an area where they do not feel safe. I believe that unless the system is changed, prisons are only going to bring more criminals and more violent ones to the roads of our cities and that with a good rehabilitation program and more psychologists in the prisons, the community will be a lot safer.                                                                                                 
