
      Most people think of drugs as something very harmful for anyone's health, and a drug, is any substance that alters normal bodily function, but depending on the use of it, it could have positive or negative consequences. There are many different uses of drugs. Recreational drugs use is the use of psychoactive substances to have fun, for the experience, or to enhance an already positive experience. National laws prohibit the use of many different recreational drugs and medicinal drugs that have the potential for recreational use are heavily regulated. Many other recreational drugs on the other hand are legal, widely culturally accepted, and at the most have an age restriction on using and purchasing them. These include alcohol, tobacco, betel nut, and caffeine products. Another use is the spiritual and religious one which has been occurring since the dawn of our species. Drugs that are considered to have spiritual or religious use are called entheogens which are mainly hallucinogens. Nootropics which are also called "smart drugs", are drugs that are claimed to improve human cognitive abilities. Nootropics are used to improve memory, concentration, thought, mood, learning, and many other things. Some nootropics are now beginning to be used to treat certain diseases such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, parkinson's disease, and alzheimer's disease. They are also commonly used to regain brain function lost during aging. <R>. However, depending on the use, drugs could lead anyone to drug addiction and therefore to possible physical, social, and psychological harm. As we can see, there are many different uses of drugs and therefore, there are many different opinions about this matter. In this essay I intend to consider three different points of view that people have concerning the use of drugs and I will also analyse subjectively each of these viewpoints.
      Firstly, in some countries like Holland, the use of some drugs like cannabis is legal and there are no signs that this increases the drug use, and also crime is lower than in neighboring France for instance. According to Podval.org, <Q>. He argues that making the addictive drugs like heroin, cocaine and other "hard" drugs legal, and available by prescription only would be really benefitial. However the prescription should be signed by a licensed physician, and given only to people who are already addicted. He also suggests that making the non-addictive drugs like marijuana or LSD legal and available in any pharmacy to adults and just marking the packaging just like the cigarettes are marked now "using this is detrimental to your health" or something similar, would be enough for everyone to see that an abuse can be harmful. People in this group also feels that even the narco-mafias would desappear as they would lose so much money if drugs are legalized. Ronald Bradley thinks that all drugs should be legalised as alcohol is, according to his article "All drugs should be legalised", <Q>.  Only a minority of the population thinks like this two people, but still, we can find good arguments like the ones mentioned above.
      In my opinion, the fact of legalising all drugs is something extremely dangerous. There are many aggresive drugs that should not be legalised as nearly anyone could buy them and abuse of them. I agree with some of the arguments mentioned in the previous paragraph, for instance, I believe that the narco-mafias would lose a huge amount of money if drugs were legal, but that does not mean that were going to be less people addicted to drugs, as happens with alcohol. Alcohol is legal, and however, the number of alcoholics is the same. It seems to me that it would be very benefitial for some patients to have some drugs legalized as it is prooved that some drugs like marihuana help people with cancer to feel better.
      Secondly, another group of people think that drugs should not be legalised at all. They believe that the fact of being legal is only going to cause more problems and also more people would have access to these drugs and therefore there will be more people addicted to them. This group of people also argues that any goverment which would legalise cannabis for example would be telling the citizens that intoxication and addiction to drugs like that one is fine, as it is legal. <Q> <R>. 
      I think that these arguments are more supported and obviously more elaborated than the ones in favour of a legislation of drugs. I personally agree that the government can not legalise a drug which could damage  anyone's health, that is why I also believe that cigarrets and alcohol, should only be sold to people who are addicted to it, and moreover, it should not be sold to anyone over 18. I agree that tobacco is really harmful to your health and as the goverment would not allow anyone drive without their safety-belts or helmets, it should not allow either a drug like tobacco that causes thousands of deaths every year. As the WHO (World Health Organisation) says: <Q>. This fact is very important because as it happens with alcohol, tobacco is a legal drug that causes lots of deaths every year.
      Thirdly, there is another group of people who argue that only some drugs should be legalised, while others should not. This is the case of medical drugs which could help a lot of sick people. These people believe that there are drugs that could help patients with gastrointestynal, cardiovascular, musculo-skeletal, oropharynx, eye, ear, nose, endocrinic problems etc. and therefore, the drugs that help people with these disorders should be legalised (Wikipedia, Medication). These group of people think that legalising all types of drugs is something very dangerous and should not be done, but they agree with some of the arguments that people who defend the fact of legalising drugs give to support their view. They think that anyone should know what is good for oneself and what is bad for their health and they believe that drugs are not good unless you are in hospital and really need it to end up with a pain. As Cristhopher Gatto says <Q>. These group of people think that some laws should be modifyed and they must be more severe with the facts of dealing with drugs and even when growing plants like marihuana in anyone's home. It should be forbidden for everybody and everywhere and it should only be administed to patients who really need it to stop suffering their pains.
      My own opinion about these point of view is that it is logical that some drugs should be legalised, but I think that they should not be called drugs if they are going to be used in medicine, I would suggest to name them medicaments, as the word "drug" has a bad connotation in its meaning. I think that the opinion of this group is very important as they are focusing on legalising drugs which can help people, and of course prohibit drugs that are really harmful for individuals. However, in my opinion, the drug addicted people who need drugs to live, are also suffering an illness and should be helped to get through their addiction aswell and to do so, some other drugs should be legalised too.
	In conclusion, I have gone through a lot of arguments which attack and defend the fact of legalising drugs in our society. The use of them is the most important thing to decide whether some drugs should be legalised or not. I have given three different points of view that people have concerning this topic, and I have analysed under my point of view each of three viewpoints. The first one is the opinion of these group of people who think that legalising drugs is the best thing to do if we want to end up with narco-mafias and therefore, have the business of drugs controlled as happens with alcohol and tobacco. Then there are people who are completely against legalising all drugs, they say that the government can not legalise something that is harmful for the citizens and that the fact of legalising drugs is not going to end up with drug addiction, what's more it would increase the number of drug addicts, as they would find really easy to buy and take drugs, and the third group of people are the ones who think that legalising is fine but only drugs that could help people who suffer different illnesses and disseases. In my opinion only drugs who could help ill people should be legalised. I also think that the best way to end up with drugg addiction is to establish more severe laws against drug dealers, to pay very expensive fines and even go into prision for having cannabis for a personal use, so that our society would realise that drugs are really harmful if they are not prescribed by a doctor. 







