
While half of the countries of the world have abolished the Death Penalty, the USA still carries out this practice of punishment. The majority of the American population supports this method, as they believe it helps to reduce the murder rate in the country and seems to be a good system to deal with the most dangerous criminals. 

In the side of the "friends" of the Death Penalty, there are many important personalities in the field of law and politics. They support the moral justification of the Death Penalty stating a  <Q>  in words of  the author Louis P. Pojman; social awareness just results in a tendency to minimize the responsibility of criminals.
      Some states  -  Texas in particular  -  base a death sentence in the jury's "prediction" of the defendant being a continuous threat to society. Proffesor Paul G. Casell (US disctrict court judge and teacher of law in Utah) as well as Joshua K. Marquis (presecutor for the last twenty years) are experts on this subject, who support that it is the jury's decision to decide the defendant's sentence. 

Nevertheless, there has been a strong oposition to the Death Penalty by organizations and individuals all over the world, pointing at it as a practice that denies the basic human rights of people. Amnesty International opposes the Death Penalty because it violates the human rights and the right to life and so it is degrading and inhuman. Besides, there are many factors which make of the Death Penalty an unfair and dubious subject. Through this short essay I would like to comment on  the main aspects in which this rejection is based, and how I agree to the abolitionist movement against Death Penalty. 

In 1972 Death Penalty was declared unconstitutional in the United States and it was prohibited, but this only lasted four years. In 1976 Supreme Court overruled its previous decision, though the only Death Penalty statutes to survive were those punishing some form of criminal homicide. Complete abolition has taken place in 25 states at different times, only to be reformed and restored again,  making what remained more resistant to complet repeal.

The first individual was killed the same 1976. His name was Gary Gilmore and he was executed by a firing squad. Since then, almost 1099 executions have taken place and almost 3600 people have been in the dead row. Nowadays, 38 American states use the Death Penalty and the great majority take place in southern states.

There has been a humanization of the methods. Oklahoma was the first to legalize death by lethal injection in 1977, though Texas was the first to use it in 1982. The lethal injection is the prefered method, although there are many others. There has not been any other execution by firing squad since Gilmore, but there've been disgusting experiences with methods considered less painful (f.ex. the case of a prisoner in Guatemala who needed 18 minutes to die from the lethal injection due to a bad aplication).

As Hugo Adam Bedan says in his book Debating the Death Penalty  <Q> with the lethal injection, but there's something important to bear in mind which is: all methods of execution are inhuman. Bedan also introduces the "Minimal Invasion" arguments, which states that invasions by the government of an individual's privacy, liberty, and autonomy are justified only in no less invasive practice sufficient to achieve an important social role. Death Penalty is more severe, more invasive than long-term imprisonment, which is sufficient invasion.

The racial question is one of the most important subjects when talking about Death Penalty. It has been stated that there is discrimination in its application. Poor minorities, in many cases members of ratial communities, are likely to fail in the appeals for a reduction and many studies point out that a reliable "predictor" of whether someone will be sentenced to death is the race of the victim. A defendant is several times more likely to be sentenced to death if the victim was white. Besides, African-Americans are treated more harshly when they are defendants while they are less "valuable" when they are victims.
      There is also the question of poverty, as 95% of the convicts cannot afford an attorney. Most of them are given an attorney who hasn't got enough preparation, which is not fair and biases justice, as a bad legal representation can easily lose the case. There are many factors leading to a wrongful conviction. Amongs them, the most common is the bad representation at court. There's also police misconduct, perjured testimony and eye-witness and specially racial prejudice. Statistically, almost 39% of the Americans believing in the Death Penalty have declared themselves uncapable of joining a jury due to their prejudices.

One implication of these failures in the system is the risk of executing an innocent person. Justice has proved to be fallible, as many cases of injustice have risen to the public light. There's always the risk that an innocent will be killed. American citizens know about this and believe that errors have happened, but mistakes are justified in order to the whole process to work.
Some examples of injustice involve the famous case of Roger Coleman, executed in 1992, and the case Stanley Tookie Williams, executed on 13 December of 2005 but there are still many others.

Nevertheless, authorities in the USA have never directly admitted to executing an innocent person in this century, although more than 75 men and women have been released from US death rows since 1972, after suffering the horror of being sentenced to death and incarcerated for a crime they did not commit. Here is important to know that the prisoners who are sentenced to death await the execution of the sentence for a long time, sometimes it takes as much as 30 years before all possibilities of appeal or postponements have been tested.

Inside this game of unfairness there's a very important point to highlight, which is that the Death Penalty disregards mental illness. There have been almost 34 executions since 1984 in which the criminal had a mermed mental capacity and, although virtually every country prohibits this type of execution, the United States still applies the same punishment independent of mental condition of the prisoner. 

Also there's the controversial question of  adolescent criminals. There have been 90 cases of young offenders sentenced to death since the reestablishment of the penalty in the 70's. All of them were between 15 and 17 years old at the moment of the crime.

In a 1991 study, Amnistía Internacional revises 23 cases of adolescents condemned to death in the United States in the last years. Most of them came from inestable or broken homes and in most cases the parents suffered from mental illness or alcoholism, nevertheless they were given the Death Penalty. It didn't count that almost 12 of the 23 teenagers had suffered sexual abuses and/or domestic violence. Neither was an atenuant that 11 of them had an IQ of 90. In 8 cases there had been adults implied in the murder but they hadn't been condemned. All these evidences hadn't been taken into account at the time of trial and all the convicts were executed.

By 2002, abolitionists were pressing the supreme court to limit the death penalty to persons over 18 at the time of the crime and also excluding offenders who are mentally retarded.

Death Penalty does not believe in second chances. If an individual improves and reforms, as in the case of Stanley Tookie Williams, he/she is not allowed an opportunity of living. There is no way of telling if someone in this case will commit any other crimes but, anyway, the answer to crime is not to increase executions. In this case the sentence is just a way to eliminate "troublesome" individuals. Besides, even if it's the State that condemns a criminal, to punish a killing by doing an execution is somehow paradoxical. <Q> is nonsensical, as states Bryan Stevenson, lawyer representing people on death row. It is difficult, even for a jury, to decide who deserves to live and who should die.

This is reflected in the experts talk about the arbitrariness of the Death Penalty. Sometimes two people charged with the same crime are given different punishments by the jury (one of them may receive the Death Penalty and the other some time in prison). Besides, prosecutors decide whether they want to seek for Death Penalty or not, which affects the whole process. And also processes in the South involve the 80% of the Death Penalty sentences.

There's also ambiguity in the commutations of penalty. Governors in the United States reserve their clemency power for "unusual cases". There is always suspicion and controversy surrounding clemency. Clinton's last minute pardon to Marc Rich arose scandal as Rich's ex-wife was one of Clinton's friends and campaing contributor. And this is not an isolated case. Besides, governors opposed to Capital Punishment usually see endangered their political coalitions in which their power is based. 
There have been 1343 commutations between 1900 and 2004, nevertheless the feeling surrounding some of the cases is that of unfairness.

In words of author Stephen B. Bright, the United States will join other industrialized nations in abandoning the Death Penalty, not so much because it suposes a human right's violation, but for the undermining of the standing and moral authority of the USA.








