      With the novel Oliver Twist, Dickens questioned the Victorian society of the 19th century. In the novel the adventures of a group of boys are told. They work for Mr. Fagin, who gives them shelter in return for their work as thieves and donation of the product of their work. It's possible one of the first novels that show kid exploitation in the industrial era. A hard situation for children remained in Europe for decades, seeing its end with the spread of democracy and human rights. However, although the rights of kids are included in the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, in its ruling 1386, of November of 1959, the situation has only improved in the developed countries  - and still in them are exceptions, especially in the context of child prostitution-. Unfortunately, the formal declarations like this one are usually simply a declaration of good intentions.
      The current situation can be easily understood with a few statistics: according to the International Labour Organization (ILO) there are 218 millions of children working throughout the world due to the poverty. They can be divided into sections of work: 130 millions work in the land, exposed to all kinds of pesticides and dangerous machinery; 1 million children work in the mining with appalling conditions. Of these ones, 200.000 are in Western Africa; the kid trade  - that includes the illegal adoption and the organ traffic- affects 1'2 millions of children; 1'8 millions are victims of sexual exploitation with commercial aims; sometimes we know the hard situation of the exploited child by the work of photographers like Fernando Moleres, which photographs stir up our conscience and question our concept of solidarity. In this essay I'm going to expose the hard reality of kid exploitation, which in my opinion cannot long any longer, dealing at the same time with some solutions to the problem, which I consider fundamental. 
      The exploitation of children has a direct relation with the globalization process. From my point of view, it is deplorable that the necessity of cheap labour drive many companies to take advantage of the lack of economical control poor countries have to settle up their factories. Thus, one of the effects of globalization is not to make easier the improvement of the living conditions of the little developed countries (like usually it is told in the international conventions of political leaders), but the subtle form of getting richer at the expense of a cheap labour that hasn't got a conscience about which rights are theirs. In my opinion, no economical interest should go beyond the rights of men, because ahead of everything must be the person. However, many people say that if we want to buy our products cheaper, things should not change. They argue that if we want to continue having our standard of life, poor countries should continuing existing to sustain our developed societies. It is bitter to say that these people have partial reason in their arguments. Nevertheless, I don't think the violation of human rights can be defended with the argument that thanks of this fact we have cheaper products. There are levels and levels, but I think that personal interests, in this case selfish, cannot be more valued than human rights. It's absolutely inhuman to make little children work for many hours in dangerous conditions.
      The exploitation of children in its diverse modalities it's a fact that must be eradicated with the help of a common front made up by the ONU, the different governments, the companies, and the trade unions. The politic support is absolutely necessary. In fact, local politics can be very useful because they can have direct contact with people, and through them it's possible to arrive to the small and medium companies that provide a large part of the work. <R>. The role of companies is also important, but the problem is that they usually give more importance to the economical aspects than to the fight against child labour. In fact, we all know, as an example, the cruel methods of Nike <R>. Finally, we have to take into account the role trade unions can have in organizing and mobilizing the workers to assure that their companies are free of child labour.
      From my point of view, it is essential that the economical development is joined to the respect for human rights. But if this doesn't fulfil, <R> something like child labour becomes a fundamental obstacle to make reality the right of all children to be educated and to be protected against violence, abuses and exploitation. In some countries there is a minimum age to work. But we have to take into account that child labour is directly related to poverty. It's said that in poor countries children see themselves forced to work in order to help their families. And here it is the problem: what the ILO <R> calls <Q>. For me it's about winning a false security in return for the loss of childhood: in those countries children are treated as mere instruments of work, and so they get dehumanised. The consequence is the increase of population. The argument that poor children have to work to help their families falls by its own.
      The abolition of child labour can be fulfilled if it is tackled by many fronts. Kaushic Basu <R> has used the term of "multiple equilibria" to show that societies can go into a vicious circle of poverty with a high level of child labour, and for the contrary, move to a virtuous circle where the level of child labour remains low. Kaushic Basu expands this idea: he makes us suppose that child labour is banned and everybody is bound to this prohibition. Suppose that education is compulsory till the beginning of secondary education (14 years) and this disposition is binding on the people. Then, the increase of quality makes attractive the education for children, getting an increase of the its demand. By this way, the offer of children in the labour market would get reduced. Companies that used to invest in children maybe would have to invest in new technologies. Wages of adult workers will increase. As they will earn enough to life, parents will send their children to school, with what the offer of child labour will reduce even more. In this context, the families that send their children to work will face the social disapproval. From my point of view, this theory idealises the consequences of making education compulsory. Why adult workers will see their wages increase due to this fact? If many companies move their factories to poor countries is because they can pay low wages to their workers.
      I think the abolition of child labour and the reduction of poverty through economical development are closely related. The rhythm of abolition of child labour speeds up when strategies create opportunities for poor people <R>. For example, there is a progress in the fight against child labour when the efforts in the development issue are centred on the reduction of poverty in the rural areas, when the number of years of obligatory education increases progressively, and when the governmental organisms, the employers and the trade unions join together to make laws where the minimum age to work is stipulated. This process is more or less what happened in Europe in the last decades of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th. However, although the abolition of this problem is so much important, big organisms like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB) don't pay enough money. This complain has been carried out time by Kailash Satayarthi (India 1954) for a long time. <R>. He is the promoter of the Worldwide Campaign for Education. For me it's incredible that money could be more valuable and important than human beings.
      The last point of this essay has to do with children trade: prostitution, the traffic of children with labour and sexual aims and the use of kids in illicit activities, like the drug trade. These are the biggest violations of human rights and there is no possible counter argument. It's immoral, inhuman and appalling, or as Marc Vergara, the UNICEF spokesman in Cambodia, says <Q> <R>. However, affronting this problem is especially difficult because are ways of hidden labour.
      In a divided world exposed to natural and human catastrophes progress results difficult. We learn that poverty is not the only cause of prostitution among children, but still there are other factors, like the social and the economical ones. It happens, sadly, that social pressure affects very much adolescents; the media dictates the patrons of the mode and the consumer vision, and they feel frustrated due to their impossibility to access this world. This people, in the search of diversion, are attracted by the promises of the sex commerce <R>. Children and adolescents who fall into that kind of mafias aren't treated as people, but as instruments, and I think this is one of the main reasons this kind of exploitation should be abolished. Children are the ones more vulnerable and innocent of society, so they must be protected.
      The other main cause of exploitation is the economical, which has to do in many cases with natural disasters. The unquestionably worse forms of child labour, like the recruitment for armed conflicts and the child trade to maintain the sex international industry in expansion, increase in this economical crisis. In the case of the last tsunami in Indonesia, the IPEC started an initiative together with the government to restore the living resources and generate revenues. This is fundamental to reduce the vulnerability of children to exploitation <R>.
      In the Cartilla Informativa <R> some solutions are told to combat kid prostitution: it is basic to pursue the child sexual clients and the owners of cheap hotels, discos and other places where conditions to child exploitation are supplied easily. In addition, the child should have the defence of law to be protected.
      To conclude, I have tried to show the problem of kid exploitation, which is one of the most critical violations of human rights. Many children are designed to work in order to sustain their families and their own. However, the schooling of children is, without any doubt, a way to make better the economical situation of the family and to fight for a better future, but I am afraid this is not always possible because poor countries lack a strong state that could be able to face the improvement of the standards of life of its citizens. This is one of the reasons that make me think that there should be an international control of the process of globalization. Moreover child trade must be also faced because it is probably worse than chid labour. I think the problem has to be treated going to its roots, which are chronic poverty, vulnerability to economic shocks, difficulties in access to education, labour market conditions and cultural attitudes.








