      For many millions of years the natural greenhouse effect has maintained the climate of the Earth in a relative stable temperature in average. This has made life possible to develop. A complex mixture of biologic and water systems gave off the exact quantity of carbon dioxide to maintain a stable balance of this gases in the air. But there have been two periods where the global temperate in average have been of five degrees lower than the present one. However, the change was slow: thousands of years passed to leave the ice age. Nowadays, on the contrary, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is increasing quickly, a fact that is changing the climate. This is happening as a consequence of the burning of more and more amounts of fossil fuels and of the destruction of forests, which in other way could absorb CO2. This has made climate change reach the top of the priorities of the politic agendas. It is from this area where climate change has to be fought and from where the catastrophic consequences that scientists alert should be tried to lessen. This impulse must be used by countries throughout the world in Bali. In this essay I will present this issue with the opinions of different people, but also with my own.
      In this following century, temperature will increase about 1,4 - 5,8 degrees. This will cause the melting of Poles, the increase of the sea level, extreme meteorological events and the spread of epidemics, among others. Ban Ki-Moon has delivered a clear message about the seriousness of climate change. He highlighted that during the last weeks he has visited the Amazon, the Antarctic and Chile, where proved the thaw and the deforestation. The scenes that saw there <Q> <R>. People who are aware of this problem think that it is important to take action the earliest as possible, and this means to reduce the emission of gasses to the atmosphere and invert in other sources. For example, in his visit to Spain in the last October, Al Gore said that Spain has the best opportunities of Europe to make the most of the economical advantages of the production of renewable energy. By this way, Spain could export big amounts of electricity to all Europe <R>. 
      From my point of view it is very important to take action in this issue, because the less we do now, the more future generations will be affected. That is why I think it is a question of moral. It is not different the fact of maintaining one's home clean than maintaining Earth clean. It s true that from our position of citizens we eventually cannot do so much, because only from a position of power  - that is, the politic elite- things can be changed. But we can recycle or waste neither water nor electricity. I remember a letter to EL PAÍS who compared climate change with a pulmonary cancer in a person. It was a metaphor of the Earth being a human being. The pulmonary cancer was the climate change in the Earth. Thus, the letter wanted to expose that the seriousness of global warming lies in its consequences: it will not affect few people (like international terrorism) or an important part of the continents (like poverty), but the entire world. This can be seen very clearly in Al Gore's documentary, in which it is said that all the shore around Indonesia, where 60 million people live, will be flooded in fifty years. This will also happen in the India's shore, where 40 million people live, and in Manhattan, which will be under the sea level.
      On the other hand, there is the opinion of the people who are skeptic of the predicted consequences of the climate change. Some conservative groups argue that Kyoto is a scheme to slow down the growth of the industrial democracies and at the same time favour the economies of the third world. This is the position that has maintained President Bush until very little time. He did not sign Kyoto as he considered it to be strongly opposed to the economy of his country. This fact made the protocol weak because the USA is the country which emits more CO2 (36% of the total) <R>. 
      Following this tendency, Gabriel C. Álvarez (President of the Instituto Juan de Marina) said in a debate in Telemadrid that the problem of climate change is not as alarming as it is being said. He supports his opinion with the conclusions of the declaration of Heidelberg, signed by 4500 scientists. They said that the global warming is not caused by humans and that the protocol of Kyoto does not solve anything because it only would relieve the problem 0,007 degrees and, in addition, it would cost an enormous sum that would impoverish a considerable part of humanity. To this, Raquel Montón, of Greenpeace, replied: <Q>. This idea is defended also by Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of Columbia University's Earth Institute, who claims that the cost of inaction will be huge compared to the cost of action. <Q> <R>.
      From my point of view the people who are sceptical about the climate change sustain too much their opinion in the economic interests of the present. And I think that an opinion in which there is no conscience of the future is an opinion that lacks solidity. In addition, Al Gore said in his documentary that nowadays there is no scientist who disagrees in the impact of the climate change during the following decades. In respect to what Gabriel C. Álvarez said about the climate change not being produced for human action, I think that it is a very risky affirmation. Because, does it mean that all the gases humans have send to the atmosphere, all the deforestation we are causing, all the tones of trash that we generate do not produce anything on Earth? I think it would be incredulous to think so. It is true that there have been climate changes throughout the biological history of Earth, but never changes have occurred so quickly. It is also true that during these processes, the presence of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has fluctuated: there were periods of more and less presence of it. However, never in history there had been so much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and the predictions say that it will increase to a great extent.
      The problem we have is that capitalism has created this problem, and from my point of view, capitalism will not solve it. I think the realist perspective is not to sustain a radical position, but try to create a balance; I am talking about sustainable development. Assuming that we are based on a capitalist society that proportions us certain commodities that nearly everybody will be reluctant to refuse, it is reasonable to argue that the best option is to create a system where equilibrium would be possible: satisfying neither the supporters of the businessman nor the extreme ecologists. That would mean a reduction of the emissions of gasses, probably going farther than Kyoto, and a policy that favour the renewable energies. It would be necessary to make campaigns to raise people's awareness of the problem that supposes global warming. But, for this to be possible, all countries, especially the developed and the developing ones, have to commit.
      To sum up, there are two positions about the climate change: there are the ones that find it alarming and want to search a solution as soon as possible, and there are the ones that are sceptical and want to play its importance down. I think a solution would be to try to reach an agreement between the two parts. However, it is undeniable that the consequences of global warming are already taking place: immense icebergs have detached from the Poles and glaciers are disappearing. That is why I consider of a great importance that countries  - especially the ones that contaminate more- reach a serious and committed agreement. If not, and as Yvo de Boer says, we are going to suffer a catastrophic impact in the entire planet <R>.
      



