
      The debate concerning the rights of homosexuals  - whether they should have the right to marry and adopt children- is still present in our society. But if we move to other countries, we will see this debate disappear to give way to the violation of human rights of homosexuals. In other countries the gay movement is completely inexistent due to the political and religious conditions and therefore homophoby continues latent. In the first world, the situation is not as extreme as in other countries such the Arabic ones, but there is a wide range of points of view about this issue. The purpose of this essay is to show these different perspectives in contrast.
      To begin with, there are different arguments which defend and attack homosexual marriages. First of all, a wide extensive idea between religious and conservative groups is that marriage is a sacred union which is blessed by God, and so, it has to be protected and respected. This is the vision adopted by President Bush, who wanted to modify US constitution in order to specify that marriage can only take place between a man and a woman. His words were the followings: <Q> <R>. However, the idea that the state has to be independent from religious institutions is shared by more and more people in the first world. Thus, it has to be understood that the government should legislate marriage according to the rights of men and the principles based in the law. On the other hand, there are the people who defend homosexual marriage in the sense that it should be a right, not a luxury that heterosexual couples have. It's said that each person should have the right to marry the person he or she has chosen with independence of his or her sexual tendency. It would be unjust not to say that many religious groups are fighting to defend this idea. Some examples can be a part of the Anglican Communion, the United Church of Christ (which endorsed the larger number of same-sex marriages in the US in July 2005), the Quakers and the Methodists. To express the changes these churches are doing, the journalist Ron Grossman argued in an article of the Chicago Tribune that <Q> <R>. But still between these two points of view, (that is, the ones who are in favor and the ones that are against) there is the position of the people who agree in homosexuals having the right to marry, but disagree in this union being called marriage. For many people the problem remains in the denomination and think their union should have another name different for marriage, which they consider unique for men and women.
      Other argument supported by extreme groups is the one that homosexual condition is not natural, but a product of mental instability. They argue that human being have the biological function of procreation, and if a person cannot in the sense that he or she is not heterosexual, is because something in them is wrong. However, this argument appears not to be valid as it has a racist base. In fact, science showed in 1973 that homosexuals are mentally healthy, and that their sexual disposition has existed always. Another argument against the homosexual marriages is the one held by the Foro Español de la Familia and the Conferencia Episcopal in Spain, who understand that the comparison of the homosexual marriage to the traditional one constitutes an attempt against the family as institution in the sense that it could be disintegrated. The law in favour of homosexual rights (for many considered as a progress of the basic rights) is considered by them as a loose of dignity. On the other hand, many people think that this step in defense of homosexuals is not going to damage the institution of the family, but is going to extend it to a wider range of possibilities which are all equally respectful. In fact, this opinion adjusts more to the egalitarian and liberal principles we have in all the countries of the Western Europe. Alejandro Amenábar, the famour Spanish director, said in EL PAÍS that the same people who now reject the rights of homosexuals were the ones that decades before rejected the vote for women.
      The next issue to discuss is the child adoption by couples of homosexuals. This is a more delicate and difficult issue than marriage because it affects other people, in this case, the adopted children. In this context, we not only have the more conservative groups, but also the people who, being in favour of homosexual marriage, reject the adoption. This group of people who positions in the middle has not dangerous arguments against, as they are only related to the household of the children. So, they distrust on the capacity of homosexuals to bring up children in a favourable environment. They argue that the best household for children is the one where there are a father and a mother because they can receive both a male and female model. Only like this they could have the stability that allows them to have a mental and emotional developing. 
      In opposition to this we find that the American Psychological Association has concluded that <Q>. This demonstrates that the sexual orientation of a person has nothing to do with the ability of bringing up a child. In fact, as many defenders of child adoption by homosexuals would argue, there are many families composed by a father and a mother that are not appropriate for the child: parents who are never at home or don't talk with their children; families where there is violence or the parents get divorced, etc. This reality weakens the arguments that attack child adoption by homosexuals, as not all the families composed by a father and a mother are exemplar. 
Another argument against is the one that says that a child who grows up in a homosexual family has bigger possibilities to have the same sexual tendencies of their parents. And they see this as a negative thing. It has to be said that these arguments are shared as well by people. This people also argue that homosexuals are more promiscuous than heterosexuals and they have a tendency to pedophilia. This seems quite risky evidence as no research has been able to prove this. On the contrary, evidence has shown that ninety percent of the child abuse is committed by heterosexual men. It seems reasonable to say in favour of the homosexuals that have adopted a child that the process of evaluation of the supposed future parents is very rigorous. They have to prove that have a good economical situation and have to pass many interviews before are allowed to adopt.
      In addition, it appears to be important to take into account the many millions of children who live in bad or even inhuman conditions in their respective countries. Children in an orphanage have got neither father nor mother. They are anxious to have a home where love, food and education will be given to them. That is why for many people it seems frivolous to divide the possible parents into heterosexual or homosexual, giving priority to the first ones. On the other hand, conservative groups argue that homosexuals put their desires or interests above the child right to have a mother and a father. However, although this argument could be persuasive in isolation, evidence weakens it as there are many children in want of a warm family. The question is: should a child remain in an orphanage when parents asking for him/her are homosexual? Here it has to be considered the rights of children, which include the right to have a house, to be protected and to be educated, and it seems evident that in many orphanages of poor countries these rights are not fulfilled.
      To sum up this essay it has to be said that these days the rights of homosexual are representing a debate in the first world. More and more countries, the last one South Africa in 2005, are recognizing these rights. So, it can be predicted that, as sooner governments impulse laws defending homosexual rights, the sooner societies would accept this issue completely in a period of a couple of decades. The reason remains in the fact that children who are born these days, would see homosexuality more and more normal as its acceptability would increase. We can see this process in the vote for women, which fight was similar to the one of homosexuals.














