

       Violence is out of control, and guns are a major cause. This is something that we all 
know, but it seems that not everybody has thought about it seriously, and some people 
don't see the problem itself. Lots of murders, crimes, death wars, and suicides are present 
in our modern society, and we still allow guns...should we ban them? Or should we permit 
them? This will be the main theme of the essay, analyzing different points of view in 
several cultures, politics, and countries, and trying to find solutions for this big problem.  

       Firstly, I personally believe that guns should be forbidden for common people. If 
they are in possession of a gun, a problem will be most likely brought about. With the 
excuse of defense, guns and weapons in general are used in an inadequate way. It's 
something common that when people feel they are in danger or threaten, they will make use 
of their guns, thus creating a violent act. Trying to repress this violent act, Police will also 
make use of weapons, making us enter in a circle where weapons are the main center of our 
daily life, being the reason for lots of dangerous and disgusting situations. We see many of 
this kind of situations every day in the mass media; radio, newspapers and on T.V. In the 
USA there are many cases of violent street groups, in marginal suburbs such as Bronx or 
Harlem in New York. They have possession of guns and sow terror, even killing people, 
most of them young. We have similar cases in Spain. In fact cases can be found all around 
the world; people that traffic in drugs, the Colombian Mafia, kill more than one person 
everyday, making people feel insecure when they walk by the streets. We can find the 
motivation for several of these problems by the root of the licenses of guns. Many countries 
give incredible facilities to people to buy guns. The paradigmatic example would be the 
USA, where almost everyone is free to purchase a gun, even kids. Michael Moore reflected 
this reality in his multi-awarded "Bowling for Columbine", an impressive documentary 
where the terrible consequences of a perverted society where fear rules are shown. Because 
Moore names fear as the basic reason for all these things to happen, a fear that is 
encouraged by a Government that tries to find excuse for some at least doubtful decisions 
relating the national Defense or the Weapon Industry. All these hypothesis are well in depth 
examined in this film. 
       Although several laws have been proposed on this matter, more than the 90 % of the 
population in the USA have got a gun in their house. It's true that each State has a different 
legislation, but the thing to be noticed is that guns are permitted in most of the States. And 
even though it's noticeable that murders and deaths are increasing, laws don't change. Some 
people think that having a gun at home is necessary to protect themselves from thieves and 
strangers but it's obvious it's not, and we just need to have a look to what happens in 
European countries, where keeping a gun at home is something we cannot even think about 
in most of the cases. The fact is that a kind of an apology of violence and weapons is being 
practiced in the USA. People are getting used to weapons, and they are forcing their 
children to see them as something normal and not dangerous, something needed for normal 
life, when it's quite obvious they are not. Weapons just create violence, especially in 
sensitive people like children or teenagers. If they learn at their homes that weapons are 
normal, their chances to kill somebody in the future, or even in their youth, will grow up. 
We have seen many cases in North American High Schools of teenagers killing their 
friends and teachers at school, or killing their own parents, all because of that "gun culture", 
and of course, because of the gun legislation. We just need to go and take a look at some 
north American middle-school rules and we'll find with surprise that the non-allowance of 
guns is the main point to be taken in count in those rules. That's something unthinkable in 
most of developed countries, where such a thing doesn't need to be said, as it is well 
understood by everyone with no need for rules. But the legislation that lets the student to 
get his own gun in the USA makes this kind of rule needed.  We may turn to "Bowling for 
Columbine" again to find a perfect example of what we call the "gun culture". Probably the 
best point in the Moore documentary, sad in some way but hilarious at the same time, the 
point which reflects how nonsense can things be, is that scene where Moore is given a 
shotgun as a gift when he opens an account in the bank. Moore reacts surprised: <Q> he asks. They 
hadn't noticed. No one notice. 
       Personally speaking I think that some Governments (principally those who permit 
guns) should think about it seriously, and educate their children and parents in a non-
violence and guns culture. An effort on this point would be much beneficial for their 
country at first instance, and for the world at last. Because we cannot permit all the deaths 
and violence we are watching everyday, and this has to change as soon as possible. 
       Another point to be taken in count is the use of weapons and its relation to the war. 
Nowadays there are many cases of armed conflicts such as Irak War, the War between 
Palestinian and Israelite, or all those local conflicts in Africa causing thousands of deaths 
everyday. How can we permit that? It's something obvious and idealistic if you want, but it 
should be easier if guns didn't exist. Violence is the easy answer, and it may be deeply 
inculcated in men instinct, but without the temptation of using guns, another way could be 
found, and we could think of different ways to solve our problems instead of resort to 
violence and war. 
 
       Finally, we cannot forget the quoted military conflicts that devastate Africa and 
make their present economic and humanitarian situation to go even worse. The numerous 
deaths, illness, and hunger are caused mainly by the prolonged duration of war in this 
continent (war between tribes, countries etc) producing at the same time depopulation and 
emigration. This situation is caused because of the non-explicit interests of the 
manufacturers of weapons, and traders of guns in connivance with Political groups, and 
Presidents of these countries. We all know. But we don't act consequently.

       To conclude, I should say and reiterate (as I have been doing during the whole 
essay) that total prohibition of weapons would be is something much beneficial, and 
something better for the human being and for the world. If we live without weapons, our 
lives would be easier and happier, and less people would die because of that. I personally 
believe that life without weapons would solve one of the most important and serious 
problems we have nowadays in our planet: violence. 

