


	Nowadays marriage and adoption of same sex couples is an  important issue put on 
debate in our present society. There are some coutries that have accepted and legislated it, 
like the Netherlands, Belgium, Canada, some States of USA, and recently Spain, but there 
are still  many others that do not even state it. In this essay I am going to show the different 
points of view that people has about this  two aspects, and how it affects to our society.

	Some people, specially religious sectors argue that homosexual marriages are not
normal. According to Cardinal Alfonso López  Trujillo, current member of the vatican 
Curia, <Q>. These arguments seem quite hard and strict, but they can be  understood 
considering that it is a religious point of view and Church's vision of marriage is to 
procreate and reproduction. The Family, they seem to claim, is the institution in which the 
human being must be based to outlast. So no other beside those who have the potential to 
build up a Family should have the authority to get married. The lack of commitment 
between the parts of the couple is also taken into account by the vatican Cardinal, who 
claims that the rights for couples with no chances for descendence cannot be equalled to 
those which would guarantee the permanence of human being. So two main points can be 
found in this reasoning: marriage must be developed just between those with the potential 
of building up a Family and  rights for couples with this capability cannot be the same as 
rights for those who does not have this potential. 
	On the other hand, a  part of  society assure that marriage  must be based in love and 
respect  to the other with no importance of genre or condition. <Q>, assures the Marriage Project of Legal 
Defense, <Q>. 
These associations claim for the equality of rights for people. From a legal point of view , 
marriage is a contract between two people and it  should not have any religious or moral 
connotation and not allowing people, being from  the same sex or not, to marry,  would 
represent not respecting their rights as human. This reasoning is based in a clear basis: we 
all have the same rights as humans, and just because marriage is a contract based in a law 
and does not mean anything but a legal agreement, no one has the right to deny it according 
to moral or spiritual believes of any kind. 
	
       But probably the most consistent argument of those who express their opposition to 
same sex marriage is that one relating the descendence and the raising of children. It causes 
plenty of controversial and different  points of view to argue. Some studies show that there 
is no difference between the children adopted by homosexuals couples and the children of 
straight people (man and woman couples). <Q>, says Danielle Julien, a professor of psychology in 
Quebec(UQAM).<Q> The American Psychological 
Association  (APA), published the same result. <Q>, they claim. Also, as John Gognsiorek 
asserts, <Q>. The main conclusion, according to 
all these opinions, would be that it does not matter if the parents are homosexuals or 
heterosexuals, children will develop in the same way, with no differences from the others. 
	In the other hand, it is argued that children raised by non-heterosexual parents are 
placed at risk. According to the National Association of Research and Therapy of 
Homosexuality (NART) <Q>. These 
arguments are strong and in some way convincing, but just in a few aspects, such as the 
AIDS issue, but the rest can be  rebated as it can be noticed in the precedent paragraph.
       One of the main arguments against child adoption of same sex couples is that for a 
child to be educated in a correct way, in a harmonious enviroment , and having a correct 
develop of himself , a figure of a mother and father is needed: <Q> <R>. A slight contradiction can be found in this reasoning; 
religious accept the monoparental adoption with no problem and they consider it normal, or 
at least "under God's law" but the mother and father figure is not seen ,<Q> <R>.
       Finally  with all the argumentations, in favour and against adoption by Homosexual 
couples, it should be taken into account a point that could influence in a determinant way in 
many countries: the religious factor, that in most cases could configurate more liberal or 
conservative societies, and in some way influence also to the homosexual adoption  
legislation of  those countries.
        
        But the most  important thing is the integrity of the children. No matter who the 
parents are , homosexual couples, single man or woman, or how the family is build in the 
adoption, the important thing is that the children should live with love, tenderness, and 
respect.  
        

