

	Religion takes a very important role in the universal cultures, from the most primitives until 
the societies considered more cultured and developed. Along the 20th century, it has created an 
amount of  serious belicose conflicts, intolerance, discrimination, problems with education and so 
on. In this essay I am going to analyse different points of view that people has about religion and 
give my opinion about them.

	The religious belief  tries to answer questions like "Where did the world come from?", 
"What happens to us after we die?" or "Is there a supernatural being?". When people believe that 
they have answers to this questions , they often start new religions, or add their new ideas to old 
religions.
      Religion is based in faith, faith in God's existence as a superior being that makes everything 
good and fair in the world. <Q> <R>. I personally believe 
that faith is something irrational. People only guided by faith , the religious bigots, are  intolerant 
because they do not admit any rational thought out of their own belief. But on the other hand, we 
can find  believers that are respectful with other people's ideas and accept critical comments  about 
their beliefs. From my point of view, these collective would be formed  by cultivate people, so as 
much culture you have, as much tolerant you are.
      
      Women  have always been a secondary element in all religions.They have been subdued 
and undervalued specially in Monotheists religions (Christianity, Judaism and Islam)<Q> <R>. Also the Coran doesn't respect women she 
doesn't have any relevance.  
      Personally speaking, I think that this situation is changing, specially in developing countries 
with Christian beliefs, where women have a very important role in society, similar as men. 
Nowadays, women in these countries go to University in an elevanted percentage,  and every day 
we can see how they occupy more directive and relevant positions in business companies, and also 
in science, sports, and in one of the occupations traditionally dominated by men, politics, where we 
can find recent examples such as Angela Merkel, president of one of the most important countries 
of  Europe. All those changes can also be observed in the religious field. A good but rare example 
would be the Protestantism, where we find women in the charge of Pastor, like men. Inside the 
sphere of  Catholic religion, some groups have emerged , that propose women to be Bishop, and 
occupy the same charges as men in Church.This idea haven't been accepted by the Eclesiastic 
Hierarchy, but who knows what the future would provide us?
      
      Another point is the relation between religion and science, that creates controversia, in 
some religious groups. <Q> <R>. In my opinion, science and religion should follow two different ways 
because they are antagonists in their ideas, Science is based in the experimentation of their 
hypothesis and Religion is based in the belief of their dogmas. So then, if they respect their domain 
conflicts could be avoided.
      In our present society, the scientific discoveries in the  biological field  have shown us once 
again differences between science and religion; clonation, experimentation with <Q> as 
a teorical principle to cure very hard illness such as cancer, and also in vitro fertilization; none of 
these have been accepted by religion. Following with this list we can also talk about the 
contraception (pills, condoms), never accepted by the high Hierarchy of Church even watching the 
kind of disasters this refusal is causing in the 3rd world countries.
      
      Education is another important  aspect to comment in relation to religion. We can see a 
clear  example of religious  intolerance  in a Christian school in  the USA  <Q> <R>. To oppose this point of view, we find also in the USA people thinking 
different: <Q> <R>. Also in Spain we have had a recent conflict 
because of the teaching of religion in schools; the Eclesiastic Hierarchy wanted religion to be an 
obligatory subject in schools while the goverment considers this subject somenthing voluntary as in 
most of the European countries.
      
      Terrorism is another topic that we cannot forget, as it also has a strong and direct relation 
with religion because of the recent terrorists attacks all over the world, specially the ones suffered 
by some Occidental countries by the Islamists <Q> <R>.
      There is another conflict, which probably is the one that  represent more clearly the 
confrontation between religions : the conflict between Israelites and Palestinian, that has produced 
and continue producing deaths everyday. If  bigots had not exisisted, part of the deaths in the world 
would have never occured. 
      Finally we should mention, as a different way of feeling religion, people that is questioning 
God's existence from a very rational and intellectual point of view: those are the agnostics.They 
never affirm or deny God's existence but in their mind they keep considering the ideas of existence 
or no-existence for God. This position is principally of the philosophers or scientists. To end up 
with, we cannot forget about atheists, a very important group in our society. They do not believe in 
God, or in the existence of a superior being.
      
      To sum up, I should say that all these points of view that people has about religion are 
respectable, but as we have seen during the whole essay, religion and believers are creating more 
problems in our societies than non-believers. It is true that believing in a God does not imply being 
a fanatic, but it cannot be denied that fanatics find in Religion a good reason for liberating their 
aggressive impulses and frustrations with dreadful consequences. 
      
      
      

