

In our present society one of the most discussed current issues is the legalization of illegal soft drugs. There have always been drugs, and they will exist forever. There are many sorts of drugs which are harmful to the health, of these, soft drugs are believed to be less addictive and less damaging to the health than a hardd drug.
Within this kind of drugs, we find same of them such as tobacco or alcohol that are legal in Spain, but drugs like marijuana or hashish aren't.
For this reason, political parties, some associations, and same people are involved in a discussion about whether this sort of drugs should be legalized or not.
In this essay I try to argue that in my view soft drugs should be legalized for different reasons.


My personal opinion of this matter is that illegal soft drugs should be legalized because in this way, there will be a bigger control on its sale, on its buy and on its consumption.
Mafias involved in drug trafficking would disappear, and it would become a legal business with rigorous quality control check of the substances, therefore what the people would consume, would be less damagind than what they usually smoke by achieving these drugs illegaly.
Nevertheless, some people feel that legalizing these illegal drugs would produce the false hope of drug trafficking would finish, they actually think that only the name "drug trafficking" would disappear since it would become a "legal crime". Criminals wouldn't go to prison and they'd become a respetable business men, but the addiction produced by these drugs would still exist.
Besides, according to the National Council against addictions, the consumption of these drugs will increase if the state would legalize them. The members of this association argue that Spanish government must protect its citizens not to encourage them to take drugs.
However, to me, with this legalization, the government is not encouraging people to take drugs, but to protect them from the irregularities which go with the prohibition of this kind of things. It is inevitable people take drugs, consecuently we have to avoid many dangerous as possible.
Furthermore, a study indicates that the consumption of this sort of drugs hasn't increased in a country like Holland, where soft drugs are legalized, and also Holland benefits, financially speaking, as the tourism has increased.












I would say that annother reason to legalize illegal soft drugs is that in comparison to alcohol and tobacco (legal soft drugs in Spain) marijuana or hashish are as damaging as them or even less harmful to the health.
In facts, the number of deaths caused by tobacco is much higher than deaths because of marijuana or hashis'consumption. For this reason, I tend to have the idea that if they are legal why shouldn't illegal soft drugs be legalized?
Tobacco is much more addictive that hashis or marijuana, actually, what makes a person be addictive to joints of marijuana or hashis is that they are mixed with tobacco.
It is estimated that in 2020 tobacco will be the most usual cause of death in occident, and however this drug is legalized in all of the countries of this part of the planet.
In addition, forbidden things don't frighten but to attract, and with the regulation of this matter, teenagers will not be so attracted towards illegal soft drugs.
Of course, it is possible to argue that that argument is just an excuse to be able to consume drugs legally. There are people who consider that everything that is damaging to the health should be difficult to get. These people know that alcohol and tobacco kill much more people than illegal soft drugs but they also argue that this happens in a prohibition context. They believe that if these drugs are legalized, mortality rate would increase very quickly.
According to Rafael Velasco, drugs are substances that must be illegal because if its availability increases, more people might become addicts.
Speaking personally, I think that if soft illegal soft drugs are legalized, this must be with some restrictions as well as the consumption of alcohol. For example, taking drugs before driving should be forbidden and punished.
If we follow the example of Holland and how this country treats the matter, we could avoid some possible risks. 
One of them is the facilities teenagers have to get drugs. For a boy between 12 and 16 years old is easier to get these substances than a tobacco packet. However, if these drugs are legalized, you could only smoke in the coffe shops and not in the street, and minors wouldn't be allowed to enter in this places.
 

Thirdly, I consider illegal soft drugs must be legalized at least for medical use.
Some of the evidence shows the consumption of marijuana in some doses can relieve tha pains of a patience of Cancer.
The use of "medical marijuana" reduces the vomits of the patiences, produced by the secondary effects of their chemotherapy treatment.
Ángeles Madrigal, a patient of breast Cancer, says: <Q>












Moreover, there are people who think this is inmoral. They don't understand how a drug can be good for a ill person but they don't really realize that every medicament is a sort of drug in a way.
Another argument some people against the consumption of this drug with a medical use give, is that the reason why marijuana relives the pains and aches often symptomatic of chemotherapy is beacuse it affects to the nervous system, making the patience less cheerful and apathetic.
Some of the relatives of a patient of cancer argue that this effect marijuana has on their relatives, makes them be half asleep and consequently, they miss things that happen around them. Furthermore, they say that it could be addictive and that its use relieves some problems but increases a new one: addiction.
However, I would say that theses arguments are not important enough if we are speaking about an important problem as Cancer.
From my point of view, what may make a patient to miss things around her or him is the Cancer itself not marijuana's effects. The most important thing here is to make this person to be as better as possible, and if he or she has to smoke this kind of drugs, he or she should be allowed to do it.
I don't consider inmoral or illogical the use of this drug to heal as same people say.
Most of medicaments are drugs or have chemical substances, and same of them are even more dangerous than marijuana, but they aren't considered illegal and their consumption is not punished.
Some sick people take morphine prescribed by doctors and it is very dangerous, it's a sort of poison, and too many doses can be mortal. They can also take sleeping pills that produce the same effects that marijuana but in this case, people donn't seem to have problems with this method.



This essay has showed different reasons why I consider illegal soft drugs should be legal. The main arguments, I have presented, are based on different theories, such as the benefits a society can obtain either in medicine or economy. The trade of these drugs would regularize, the problem of mafia would disappear, and all the problems that emerges for this situation.
Drugs exist around the world, and it is inevitable that many people consume them.The punishment doesn't solve the problem. If other soft drugs are legalized, people should have the same rights to consume these ones. With these arguments I tried to defend individual's freedom. Everyone should be allowed to do what she or he wishes provided this person doesn't harm to other people. If illegal soft drugs are legalized, you have the choice to take them or not, but nobody must participate or judge other people choices.








