
In the last decade, homosexual people have demanded in a stronger ways, their right to get married same-sex people. However, in most of the countries, this kind of marriage is not allowed yet. On the contrary, these unions are possible in Spain since the 21th of June 2004, where the Congress approved, with a majority of the votes, the law that allows same sex people get married and consequently to adopt children. Nevertheless, there are still different opinions about this subject, for this reason I will discuss the different viewpoints in favor and against of homosexual marriages and the possibility of adopting children that implies the passing of these marriages.


A large majority of population in Spain is in favor of SSM (same sex marriage). They, either homosexual and heterosexual people, think that they the passing of this law was a great step for humans'rights since it allows that gays and lesbians might achieve rights and protections in law that had been previously been reserved as special privileges only for heterosexuals. The legalization of the same sex marriages was one of the most important rights for homosexuals and lesbians because they can already get married the partner that they love and to whom they are committed for the rest of their life.
According to Pedro Zerolo, a gay councilman of the P.S.O.E,  <Q>. It has been suggested that if homosexual men and lesbian women have the same obligations than heterosexuals, such as paying taxes, why shouldn't they be able to get married and to form a family? With these unions they damage nobody and they manage to be happier. Furthermore, gays from the association " COGAM" say that marriage must be a right not a privilege and therefore this society can not humiliate its members by banning their unions. Due to that with the marriages they form a family, homosexual people also want to increase that family by adopting children, or perhaps, in the case of lesbians through artificial insemination. They argue that they are full of love and that they would be as good parents as heterosexual ones. This seems to be a logical argument, because gay and lesbian couples are as loving as are opposite sex couples, and are equally as competent as parents. However it is also true that society is not ready yet to accept the fact that a child belongs to a same sex couple and perhaps sometimes  these children would have to face to jokes and comments people who do not accept this situation play.

It seems to be that people is more tolerant with the homosexual marriage than with the adoption of children by gays and lesbians. This can be illustrated by the following statistical study that shows the opinions of the citizens from the EU. On average, 44% of EU citizens agree that homosexual marriages should be allowed throughout Europe, however only 32% of Europeans feel that homosexual couples should be allowed to adopt children. . In fact, in 14 of the 25 Member States less than a quarter of the public, accepts adoption by homosexual couples. The main argument against the adoption is the belief that a child needs a male and a female figure, and this does not happen with a same sex couple. For instance, the president of the French republic, Nicolas Sarkozy has said:  <Q>. Besides, he has agued that either a homosexual couple or heterosexual couple, can give love to children but  parental attributes must be complementary, in other words, children must see a male and a female role at home, a mother and a father.  Groups opposed to same-sex marriage as "el foro español de la familia" have generally found that homosexual parents are inferior; moreover,  they have the idea that a child growing up in a gay household will be more likely to be homosexual themselves. Other people argue that there is no problem in the homosexual marriage since it doesn't affect anyone except the couple itself,  but the question of the adoption is a little bit complicated as here a child plays an important role. These people have the view that SSM (same sex marriage) should not be allowed to have children since the kid can not choose if he wants to live within a homosexual environment where in the case of two men, there is no a mother and in the case of two women, there is no a father. Although this point appears to be persuasive, it has certain weakness for different reasons: no children can choose their parents, therefore if the state does not forbid people like murders or people who maltreats their wives to have children, no one should forbid gays and lesbians to adopt children providing that they are good people. In addition, the American Psychological Association, in a recent report reviewing the research, observed that <Q> and concluded that <Q>. Groups that support same-sex marriage, or which have no preconceived position have generally found that children parented by lesbians or gays are not different from those raised in an opposite-sex household ". There has been no definitive research to show that a child with two loving same-sex parents will be less healthy than a child with two parents of the opposite sex. Bearing this in mind, it seems safe to say that it would be better that a child has the love of two parents of the same sex that nobody loves her/him. Furthermore, from the moment they form a marriage, they are able to be parents, consequently the State can not give them some rights but deny them other ones. 

Some people would argue that either homosexual marriage or adoption is inconceivable in the human mind, and with the legalization of these facts in Spain, polemic is the order of the day. The main institution against the homosexual marriage is the Church. Calderoli, a cardinal of the Vatican, told that the legalization of these marriages is an act against God and nature. The main reason for the Church to be against homosexual marriages is because, according to the Bible, God created two humans of different sexes so that they could reproduce. He ordered them to have children and start to populate the world with more humans. The human life is the result of heterosexual nature and people of the same sex have no the "necessary tools" to reproduce. The bible describes the marriage as a union between a man and a woman, and the word of God does not accept any other kind of marriage or sexual relationship. As Durging-Clinchard <R> points out, essentially all conservative Christian groups and leaders describe SSM and civil unions as a threat to society. They often consider the nature of this menace to be self-evident, and do not give an in-depth analysis of the reasons for their concerns. For example, Ken Connor, president of the Family Research Council (FRC) wrote: <Q>. The most conservative people in the present society think that homosexuality is an illness or psychological disorder and therefore gays and lesbians must not have the opportunity to get married or have children but they should receive psychological help in order to heal "their illness".  The problem with this argument is that it has demonstrated that homosexuality is not an illness and therefore gays and lesbians must not be treated as sick people. On the other hand, if these people lack some of their rights just for their sexual orientation, we should be talk about discrimination.  Moreover, the cases in which theses marriages are allowed, they are civil unions and consequently church should not get involved in things that don't concern it. 
Although it is true that a lesbian or a male gay couple can not procreate, it is also true that parenthood is not obligatory for marriages, neither can a man and woman where one is infertile, either for a medical reason or because of age, and they can get married.
In the case they want to have children, many infertile couples, both same sex or opposite sex, can become parents if they adopt children or use methods like artificial insemination in the case of lesbian women.


In conclusion, this essay has presented different opinions about homosexual marriage and adoption by lesbian and gay people. There are opposing views, both in favour and against, about this subject, as well as several reasons for what they consider these marriages and adoptions must be legal or not. It is also told the possible consequences these marriages will have on a child of a SSM. The world is changing and consequently laws too and therefore governments must adapt laws to the necessities and rights of the people. As a result of these changes, debates are created but people have to be more tolerant with others who are different or have another point of view so that everybody might be happy.





