
      The family is one  of the prorps of our society. It has been considered as an 

institution. For centries the idea of family included the participation of the paternal 

figure, the maternal figure and the offsprings. It was a patriarchal institution in which 

the father worked out of house in order to sustain the family, and the mother was the 

person who stayed at home taking care of the children, the household, etc. This vision 

of a family has been the traditional and the most common one. Even though the typical 

family included two households, and the children, it has existed the single-parent 

families as well. However these cases were due to the death of one of the parents. But if 

the single-parent families was the result of a birth outside marriage, it was a loss of 

prestige to the honor of the family. Single mothers were very criticized by the society of 

then. It is not until the 20th century when this vision about family started to change. New 

types of family like the single-parent families, step-parent families, unmarried couples, 

homosexual families among others were more or less accepted.  These family changes 

are the result of changes in the society, the declaration of an equal society between 

sexes, religions, cultures, the incorporation of the woman to the labour world and the 

widespread of divorce. But also they are the result of a different perspectives and 

attitudes towards the instituion of the family, now the head are both, the father and the 

mother, collaborating together in most cases. Nevertheless, this new structure in the 

familiar core has raised different opinions. In this essay, we are going to consider the 

different points of view about one of the new aspects in the western culture that is the 

single-parent families.


      A recent studies indicates that the porcentage of single-parent families has 

grown from 1960. According to the stadisctics <R>, the cases of 

single-parent families has increased 58% between 1983 and 1996 in the european union, 

and in the case of the U.S.A the proportion of children living in single-parent families

increased 27% between 1960 and 2000 <R>. This show the 

acceptance of this type of familiar structure. Some people might argue that growing a 

children in this environment is as valid as any other type of family. Children of single-

parent families recieve the same education, care as children broght up in a family with 

the paternal and the maternal figures. Even many people seem to believe that children of 

single-parent families get a better education than children from families with the two 

biological parents. 

	
      In adition to this point of view, other argument in favour is the opinion that 

children with one biological parent are less likely to suffer any familiar conflicts about 

how to rise the offsprings than children from other families. And also, the general 

feeling is that parents of these kind of families have closer and more direct relation with 

their children. Although this viewpoint seems to be convincing, it has certain 

weaknesses. A family with just one parent could educate better their sons or daughters 

than other family with two parents, but also following the same rule it can be as worse 

as any other type of family. This opinion is not objective becuase it depends on what 

kind of person is the biological parent, the time that the parent can devote to their 

children, and other factors. Therefore, it is apparently true that there may not be as much 

conflicts as in traditional families are because there is only one decision about 

everything, but for that reason it can be stressful for the parent provoking impacts on the 

children. And finaly, the relation between parents and children depends more on the 

parents themselves, it does not matter if there is one or two parents. It depends on the 

involment and interest of the two parts of the family. 


	
	After showing the opinion in favour single-parent families we can observe a 

second opinion. Some people would argue that there is a preference to have two pillars 

to support more easily any kind of problem that they can come across. To raise a child 

is a very difficult and hardwork purpose and usualy people would prefer to have 

someone on who they can count. But this preference does not mean that a traditional 

family is better or that single-parent families have bad effects on children. It is to make 

life easier and not to carry all the weight of the family. However, these people respect 

and see the single-parent families as another type of familiar structure as valid as any 

other family. This point of view maybe the result of the increasing of the families that 

have been trough the process of divorce. 


	Nevertheless, this argument seems to make sense, since it is easier to have 

someone helping you and sharing all the difficulties not only economically but also 

morally. However, this viewpoint is not true in all cases. There are lots of families 

nowadays in which only one parent is the commissioned that carries the entire burden. 

For example, when the two parents work and one of them has to take care of the 

household as well because the work is not permitting him or her to do so. It occupies 

most of the free time. This is due to the general feeling of living in the best way possible 

for you and your family, so that our society is becoming more and more expensive. But 

there is also other cases in which one of the parents is not so interested or adopts a more 

passive attitudes to the children. When they get home, they just watch T.V without 

helping their children with homework, or simply playing with them or just asking how 

was their day at school. They leave all these task for the partner. Therefore it is as we 

were dealing with a single-parent family. So this opnion about family is reasonable but 

it is should not be generalized because there is lots of cases. 


	After analysing two different points of view we should consider another opnion 

against single-parent families. Rebecca O'Neil maintains that single-parent families do 

not create a proper environment for raising a family. First of all, it is believed that this 

type of families are usually poorer, since there is only one income in order to cover 

costs. Therefore, children grow in more conflictive situations. This fact can influence in 

the behaviour of the child at school. It is a tendence to become a problematic student. 

Secondly, being just one parent can have effects on the parent health or even in the 

children health. The parent can suffer from depression as she or he sees him/herself 

alone dealing with everything, work, household, education of children, etc. And the 

children have more possibilities of having problems of health. Third reason that some 

researchers would say is that all these children brought up in a single-parent family tend 

to have problems with drugs, alcohol, and also to become teenage parents.  


	This feeling about single-parent families could be argued that it is a very 

pesimistic point of view. And also, this is not a very realistic opinion. As in the other 

analysis we have seen that there are many cases. There are cases as families are, so it is 

not correct to generalize. It is true that a single-parent family have more possibilities of 

being a poor family because of the lack of income, but not always is like that so that the 

parent may have a good salary. However, regardless of the salary of the parent is not 

related to the behaviour of the child. It is related to the education that parents teach to 

their offsprings. So we can see a child coming from a rich family that is very 

problematic at school because this child have been educated in such a way that he or she 

behaves as he or she likes.  However, the second opinion pointed out in the previous 

paragraph is more logic. On the other hand, it is not always aplicable, since problems 

affect to families of two-parents families as well, even though they have another 

support. That depends more on the strentgh and personality of the person in question. 

Nevertheless, the third reason is not quiet reasonable, since having one parent or two 

parents does not make a difference for a teenage to do drugs, drink alcohol or have 

sexual relations. It does not matter the background the children have if the education 

taught by the parent is efficient. 

 
	In conclusion, this essay has discussed the pros and cons of the single-parent 

famlily structure. First, single-parent family benefits the growth of the children in many 

aspects such us education, more relax environment at home and it is more easier to 

establish a closer relation with the children. The second point is not against either in 

favour. Single-parent families as respected and considered as valid and good family as 

any other. And finally, we have seen the feeling against one parent family, so it is 

imcomplete that is reflected in the children. The children of that type of families miss a 

proper education, more attention, care, etc. Therefore, these lacks of attention, care and 

so on harms later on the children themselves becoming more problematic persons in the 

future. On balance, single-parents families are not a better type of family but a different 

type that does not have good or bad effects on children, it all depends on the education 

taught by the parent. 



















