
      
      Television is a machine that transmits images through electricity. The first step 

in the invention of television was taken by Nipwok, in 1884. He help to refine the 

transmission of images by his discovery of a disc of great speed of rotation. 39 years 

later, in 1923, a man called Zworykin replaced Nipwok's disc for a electronic system 

that slipts up the image. This was a revolutionary advance for the development of the 

television. The first television's images were in black and white and they had no 

sounds, but little by little that new machine was acquaring sounds and some time later it 

had colour already. Since 1930 television became a comercial good available for the 

population. The main function of this invention is the communication through images 

and sounds. It is not only used for communicating with all the parts of the world but 

also to entertain through programms, films, etc. Due to these roles of television, it 

became one of the most succesful inventions throughout the history. Nowadays, at least 

in western culture, every household has as a minimum one television. This success has 

provoked a huge competition. Now we can find many different brands like Sony, 

Philips, etc. In addition, there is right now the possibility of access to a hundred 

channels or more. Therefore, the comerce that has been created from television has 

become one of the most powerful and prosperous business. It moves vast amounts of 

money all around the world. However, this huge widespread and variety of programs 

have had effects on our society. In this essay, I am going to show the different points of 

view about television impact on our society and to poin out, in my opinion, what the 

weaknesses  and the strenghts of these perspectives are.

   	
      The number of viwers nowadays is extremely high. A recent statistic television 

study shows that 99 % of the households possess one television, and this is only in the 

U.S.A. Some people believe that this use of television has positives effects on our 

society. It seems that the television influence different fields. The main field is the 

cultural one. It has been said that television has benefited the rural areas in order to 

show new cultures, countries, landscapes, etc. It is believed that television has helped to 

increase the people's interest in many other topics. In other words, people strongly think 

that television brings viewers nearer to new themes, issues, events, etc. For example, a 

study published by foxnews says that: <Q>. Moreover, it has 

been argued that television has stimulated the interest in other ways of entertainment 

like theater or concerts. This is because television is available to almost everyone, yet 

this does not happen with theater or concerts that are only for those who may afford the 

entry to any of these events. Another benefitial factor is that this television does not 

only entertain but also, it informs the viewers about all the events that are taking place 

around the world. It is generally thought that television is one of the most effective 

media in order to bring over information to the audience. 


	From my point of view, I see that this argument is quiet reasonable. It is true that 

television can have a good impact on population. First of all, I think that it really can 

teach you new things that were unknown for the audience. For instance, the channels 

dedicated to broadcast documentaries about science, history, literature, art, geography 

any many other topics. I strongly believe that this way of learning new things is more 

pleasant and agreeable, since it is someone that is telling you everything accompanied 

with images, sounds, etc. In addition, it seems to me that television is one of the best 

media, so that one can be aware of what is happening in the world. It helps you to have 

a wider view about everything that is taking place. This could be good for everyone, 

from my viewpoint, in order to see positive aspects that can be taken into account but 

also in order to avoid negative ones. I would say that comparing all the information you 

achieve from television programs might help you to develope a more critic perspective. 


	Another perspective about the influence of television is that it has negative 

effects on population. It has been shown that the percentage of americans that watch too 

much television is 49 % of the american population. This data affects as well to 

children. In this same study compiled by TV-Free America demonstrates that <Q>. In other words, it is claimed 

that viewers, specially children, spent too much time in front of television, instead of 

dedicating that time to do other things. This fact leads to another important problem, 

and that is health problems. According to TV-Free America's essay (Influence of 

Television):  <Q>. This is due to the 

inactivity of children, since they are sitting just watching TV. But also, there is another 

interesting point highlighted in the same essay, and this is addiction. The general view 

is that after a hard work day, people usually want to relax sitting on the sofa while they 

are watching an interesting program. This habit can lead to an abuse of television 

hooking the viewers. Another point of view that is very controversial nowadays is the 

effect that violence shown in TV programs and films can have on children. According 

to a study of National TV-Turnoff Week: <Q>. Therefore, many 

people would say that violence acts broadcast by television programs may be a risk to 

influence the behaviour of adults and children. This, in the long run, can become a very 

problematic situation for the population.


	In my opinion, this perspective about television is rather convincing, yet it has 

some weaknesses. According to William Triplett, in his article TV not to blame for 

violence, study says (2007), <Q>. Therefore, if children adopt a violent 

behaviour it is not because of any influence of television, but because of <Q>, as William Triplett claims. I strongly believe that the real problem is the 

education that children receive. It seems to me that if the education given by the 

teachers, but specially, by the parents has good sense and the most important values like 

respect are highlighted, then children will be able to differ perfectly what they should 

take as a good example and what not. The other argument about the excess of time 

watching television appears to me a worrying fact. From my viewpoint, in the case of 

children, sometimes this problem lies on the parent's roles. Children should not be 

allowed to watch TV for three hours, they should be playing, reading, riding the bicicle, 

etc. However, I feel that many parents entertain their children with the TV in order not 

to bother them. Moreover, in the case of adults, I think that they should be concerned 

about the consequences of inactivity, and that is overweight, high blood presure, among 

others. 


	After having analysed the two main perspective, in favor and then against, there 

is a group of people that argue that television does not have any effect in the viewers, 

niether positive, nor negative. Many people consider television as another way of 

comunication but not as something related to diversion or cultural. They see the 

television as a company exclusively, a business that makes huge amounts of money and 

create many jobs.  Other people may just use the television as a way of sharing events 

with other people. According to María Puente <R>, a scientist called Brook states that there is still a strong urge to share 

some events, such as breaking news, the Super Bowl or live competitions such as 

American Idol and Dancing With the Stars. <Q>.


	Nevertheless, this opinion seems to make sense, I think is not very objective. 

Television as any other media influences people. The problem is in which way it 

influences the people, sometimes it has positives effects and some other times it has 

negative effects. I agree that television is just a business, yet it plays with aspects that 

can have more impact in order to have high level of audience. For instance, if workers 

of television know that a specific type of program is goin to be successful, they are 

going to televise it. Moreover, a program in order to be successful it should have an 

impact on the viewers. This is the reason why I think that television always have an 

effect on the watchers in more or less measure. The second arguement is really 

interesting. It seems to me a very curious point of view, since it is true that people need 

something to talk in their enviornments (at work, home, class, and so on). For achieving 

this communication I think that it should be somethings in common that you can share 

with other people, and television here plays an important role. For instance, one can 

share one's hobbies, like sport, other people prefer junkie-television, others prefer 

serials, others documentaries, etc. There is a wide range of variety of topics that people 

can share with other people. From my viewpoint, there is a tendency in human being of 

sharing aspects we enjoy, in other words, people like to feel that they have things in 

common with other people. 


	In conclusion, this essay has deal with three different perspective about the 

influence of television in our society and what I think about the weaknesses of this 

viewpoints are. Firstly, people have argue that television has had positive effects on the 

population, in order to spread over many topics, hobbies, art, enlarge knowledge, create 

a more critic view on different aspects, etc. Secondly, I have dealt with a numerous 

group of people that really believe that television only damages the health of viewers, 

specially children. It has negatives effects like overwieght, adicction, the increase of 

violent and problematic behaviours and inactivity. And thirly, I have shown another 

perspective that does not think that television has  not any effect on people, positive 

either negative. They see television as a mere business and a way of maybe share events 

with other partners at work, you family, friends, etc. After having explained these three 

points of view about the role of television in our society, I think that television has 

effects on our society, however, we should be more aware about its effects and as 

everything, television comsuption should have a middle point, and never reach to the 

abuse of it.  







