
	Nowadays researches suggest that violence against women is increasing everyday. <Q> <R> or even The United Nations General Assembly defines <Q> <R>. Violence against women is being studied from different points of view, for example in Spain, a country in which there are collected several homicides a week or even a day as it is said in El Mundo <Q> <R>. So, in this essay I'm going to discuss the different opinions about this familiar topic to us  - violence against women- and the different connotations it has; and I'm going to present three viewpoints in relation to that issue: one in favour of it, one against it and the other one with an intermediate viewpoint. 

Firstly , there seem to be some differences in relation to the connotation on the phrase "violence against women" or "gender violence" which at first seems to be the same but, "gender violence" includes both violence against men and also against women. These is a delicate issue to treat and there are different opinions about a well usage of that words, for instance, Lázaro Carreter, a Spanish philologist and member of the Spanish Royal Academy since 1972 wrote in one article in El Pais <Q> <R>. Another argument is one from the US in which is said that <Q> <R>. This seems to be a topic of constant tension but at the same time providing flexibility and richness to the language where it is immersed, but because of our focus on the test is that there are different views on gender violence in the broadest sense of the word and not only in its linguistic content.

We don't know the causes of that disasters against women to happen but the truth is that it is likely to become more and more fashionable each day; the question most of the people make themselves while seeing these terrible acts is: Are there really causes to end with lives in such manners? Is that fair, both for the victim and the environment? Some men- most of them aggressors- try justified blaming women for his infidelities or problems related to the couple or even the passion they feel but in most of the cases they justified themselves with drunken or drugs' states and they also believe that the penalties to which they are subjected are exaggerated and not agree with their incidents. But El Mundo assures that <Q> <R> and also two psychologists, at the University of Vigo, who are abuse's experts underline  that <Q> <R>. This doesn't seem to be a logical argument because these aggressors are not seen well by the society and more important by the families of those killed women.

On the other hand, some women feel sorry and helpless in relation to that theme; they feel they need to have some freedom and also more help in that kind of situations in which the police and other authorities should be present. This is something lots of women concern all around the world. The fact is that National Organization for Women create the Violence Against Women Act of 1998 but it is not functioning as this. In some countries in Latin America it is said that <Q> <R> but other countries like Spain, USA or UK these kind of abuses are controlled by the authorities, and a good example happens in Plymouth in which women can call to the Police Domestic Violence Unit and they will assist women in many ways as: <Q> <R>. This could be considered a realistic perspective, the one of those women tired of these behaviours and sad endings; and also those women who not always find help in their environments.

The middle point in relation to this topic could involve the theme of legislation. These people- normally the ones who see these cases on television or even they here something in the radio, but anyway, they are far from these problems- are not very sure about the problems that some pairs have and the causes of the horror endings in some of their lives. The problem that people has with this perspective, is that they don't know if the guilty person in their relationship was the man or the woman or the problems that they used to have in their marriage (relationship). So, a possible solution could be that people may adopt a legislation which specifies that he assures an integral and coordinated response of the authorities opposite to the violence of genre and that means a rehabilitation that begins in the jail and continue out, as a way of preventing the aggressor from affecting or returning any of his previous acts; also there should be more social programs for that women that are sometimes helpless. In this way, it seems to be good for them  to be occupied (for example working) and not thinking about their suffer or even their past. Then, this point is convincing, because is a neutral one in this conflictive and difficult topic to talk about, and these people are doubting because of the need of data about the different cases, maybe they need more arguments and clues of the different situations but what they think is difficult to be treat and should be a judge or laws which would say the truth and the punishments or not.

So, in this essay I have discuss the different opinions about this familiar topic to us  - violence against women- one in favour of that (some men), other against that (the women who suffer or those who have suffered these kind of abuses) and the last one, the most neutral neither in favour nor against this violence- due to the different linguistic connotations the issue has, which are non less important than the points of view .











