	Terrorism is the worst way of murdering people, that we have nowadays in Spain. The United States Department of Defense defines terrorism as <Q> <R> and Wikipedia defines it <Q> <R>; we can really find lots of definitions but all of them have in common feelings like terror, anguish, fear, pain, and more negative ones. In my opinion, the purposes of the terrorism from ETA organization was in first place to create terror, within some political parties, although now, this terror has been extended to all the population in the country. I believe that these terrorists are ill-minded persons who kill and who simultaneously do not realize the damage that they cause; then, we have to penalize them for these acts. This is the terror that we must finish with; so, in this essay I'm going to argue different solutions to avoid this problem of terrorism in Spain, due to my own point of view in relation to them.

	ETA is an <Q> <R> In the summer of 2004 there was in Madrid <Q> <R> at the beginning people thought is was done by ETA but it was too loudly in comparison to what they normally do. Researches on the attacks aim that <Q> <R>; this was an strong impact and a date difficult to forget. In my opinion, this organization started as a way of democratization but now it is declining and getting worse. I think that is getting a conflict difficult to solve through murders, because one life is more expensive than what terrorists want and have in mind when they murder people. 

	Arnaldo Otegi, the speaker of "the outlawed Batasuna" assures that <Q>. ETA bets for a democratic solution; The Spanish Prime Minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, chose to begin  with a dialogue with ETA that would take us to the democratization and union of Spain. Hovewer, this dialogue failed and we, Spaniards, realized that the intention  of ETA is to separate the Spanish country with violence. From my point of view, the Prime Minister took a fast decision in relation to this topic which is delicate. Also, he must take into account what the rest of Spaniards feel about that. It is true that he is our representative figure, but I think he must not open a process of peace without relying on the citizens; and they are the ones who diverge as about his opinions, because not always politics bears them in mind. I believe there is no kind of dialogue with these terrorists so, I don't find this way as a good solution to finish with terrorism of ETA.

	Apart from that, there are people who think that the only solution against the terrorism is to penalize in a harder way the terrorists. This punishment is done in order that they pay and learn for what they have done, that is murdering or damaging one or more persons. From my point of view, I believe that this one would be the best solution; moreover, it is true that we can never have all the terrorists in front of us to punish them but we could punish them gradually while they commit a murder(s). Another thing that I believe that we must stop doing is to eliminate punishments or years of jail because it is an advantage for them but disadvantage for the relatives of the victims and us. I imagine that the elimination of terrorism is a difficult topic for politicians to treat but, anyway, they should try to take decisions with the consent of the citizens, something which has failed with this last government, something that citizens complain about. Therefore, I believe that we should be more strict on having imposed sentences of jail on the terrorists and also avoid to shorten them because they have good behaviors for example, since they comited crimes and these murdered people are never going to return; if they cause the death of someone is a game, they must pay for what they have done and probably the life imprisonment is the best punishment for them. 

	The last solution would be the one for those radicals who think that the only punishment for terrorists would be the same that they imposed their victims, the death in most of the cases. It is necessary to bear in mind that not all the victims lose their lives but they remain damaged physically and psychologically for the rest of their lives; and these damages are probably worse than death  -  they are remained through all their lives. My opinion is that, this solution is very drastic, and with it we would also turn into killers; at that time the world would be full of assassins and this would drive us to a chaos situation. I also think that they ought to suffer, the same that happens with their victims, and death penalty could include suffering but in must of the cases it is rapid and painless.

	The truth is that these terrorists are laughing in the faces of all the Spaniards. I am not a relative of any victim but for them it must be it horrible to be able to see the face of their major enemy, the assassin of their father, brother, friend, etc; and it is still harder to see this person in jail during a very brief period of time or without staying there for good conduct, and so on. I want neither being passive, in this issue looking for dialogue with these terrorists, nor being radical imposing the death penalty in Spain because it would be to go back past times, and we would become assassins as them, but, we should punish them with a complete sentence as I have already said to be one of the solutions.

	To sum up, I have argued different solutions to avoid this problem of terrorism in Spain especially with ETA. We have also seen how delicate this issue is, so, there are not lots of solutions to solve it, but, from my point of view, the best one would be to keep the punishments we impose to them, from the beginning of their sentence to the end. It is also true that politicians must be aware of the citizen's opinions while decide the future of these terrorists and judges together with the courts must seek and to decide a good sentence for these terrorists.So, I would not like to end this essay without reminding these horrible terrorist attacks that we suffer in Spain On March 11, 2004, both in the trains of Madrid and in one building of Leganés where two policemen died; an attack of these dimensions is going to be something difficul for us to forget because <Q>, this may give us the strength to fight against terrorism and live in a world full of peace and smiles everywhere- although this is a utopic point of view.
