
	In this essay I am going to argue against the child abuse; for that I am going to explain the types of child abuse according to a British association called ChildLine, which helps children and offer a telephone number to talk to the personal and advise them, because sometimes, the panic plays against them. So, I think that a better starting will be explaining the different types of child abuses: the first one and very known nowadays in Spain is the sexual abuse in which <Q>; this very dangerous- like the rest of course- and one of the daily news here in Spain. The second one is the physical abuse in which <Q>. Then, the emotional abuse in which <Q>. And finally the neglect in which <Q>. These abuses have the same level of importance because they normally cause different traumas and fears to the child towards the world he/she lives in (fear to people or actions, places... and even some unhappy memories). In my opinion, we must condemn we must condemn these actions because children should be treated as a precious treasure towards our future, because in any case, they are the future. Furthermore, we should know that it is very difficult for a child to the mistreatments or the feelings he/she has inside when he/she is near to abuses...for that reason I am going to follow talking about the warning signs we can see in children to diagnose the abuse, continue with the effects that abuse has on them due to the causes and possible solutions.

After explaining the different types of abuses caused to children, I think that I explain the warning signs which are important to appreciate children's behaviour to solve the problem the child has: in first place and due to sexual abuse we can see some as <Q>...also I think that we can include here online sexual child abuse in which children are linked like victims through Internet; these are very dangerous signs and seeing from the point of view of an educator it is also sad. After seeing the signs of the sexual abuse, I am going to present the signs that in my opinion are typical to diagnose a physical child abuse: even in babies not yet born when many chemicals pass easily from a pregnant woman's system, shaken baby syndrome, <Q>, and so on. Then according to the emotional abuse I believe that the most important warning signs are <Q> making the child to participle in an inappropriate behaviour. Finally, due to neglect warning signs I would like to remark these ones as Helpguide.org says: <Q>. I think that all of these signs are quite useful for us as educators, parents, family members and so on, to notice if the child is happy or not and identify these terrible mistreatments.
Now, I would like to talk about the effects that abuses have on children that in my opinion could be avoided by the environment  of the child, and what I mean with environment involve parents, the school, the family and every person who spends time with the child. What I have noticed is that the effects or consequences of child abuse are normally negative; some of the effects according to a recent report of UNICEF are: emotional ones due to <Q>; physical ones as <Q>; and finally behavioral that us from the point of educators of the child perceive easily in his/her everyday life and they are <Q>. I believe the three kinds of effects are quite important so we should be aware of that and avoid the child fall in them, because these is the place they arrive to after an abusive behaviour of adults on them, so these kinds of behaviours must be condemn as I have just said.
Then, I should talk about the causes of the abuses which are as important as the effects after the abuses, but in the case of the causes, they are the ones which triggers the abuses to happen and I tend to think these are the ones we can avoid while treating children, because we sometimes think that children are inferior to us but they also think feel and understand the world around them and these mistreatments are noticed by them and also they are hurting children and their feelings. So, I am going to enumerate different causes related to child abuse that Helpguide organisation propose: these are <Q>. My conclusion related to this topic of the causes of child abuse is that we as adults must avoid these actions and take more care about children and make them also notice that they are important for us that is treating them in a correct way, with soft words and so on.
Before finishing I would like to propose some solutions that from my point of view may be useful to children who suffer now or in a future from these abuses. On the one hand I would advise a child to be brave  -  although I know it is difficult  -  and talk to the parents in order to face the problem because this may give him/her the strength to pass over the problem. Moreover, there are some phones like the one in England called ChildLine which helps children giving advices and some softy words in order to change the thoughts of the children for a moment and also make them feel "warm" and care. And finally it would be interesting also to talk to other children in the same position to contrast ideas and work together to feel better, in that way they will feel comfortable because they may have the same or similar problems.
To sum up I would like to make stronger my position against these mistreatments which are the sexual, physical emotional abuse due to the neglect which have lots of causes and effects. So, we must be aware of the behaviour of the children we have around us and give them the best treatment we can, the same we would like to receive from adults if we were children, and the most important thing: take care of them because as I have just said, they are our future so we must preserve it; in my opinion we are full of kisses, huggies and so on, so, why not sharing them with the children? Finally they are sweet, clever and a good company...









