

      Our society has got a new problem never imagined before, we have lost the control on our children, parents are not educating their sons and daughters to behave and obey, and one result of this is the absence of respect children nowadays have got for their grownups, as their teachers or parents, and other children, normally weaker or more sensible kids. In this essay I'm going to give my point of view of this alarming situation and I'm going to propose some solutions I think would help to change the diffiult reality found at spanish schools.
      
      I think violence in our schools demands that educators, students, parents, social service organizations, and concerned individuals must be informed about the problems, causes, and effects of  school violence and I believe that we all should join the search for solutions. 
      Much of the violence shown by children are "Hate crimes," crimes motivated by race, color, religion, or gender, that are on the rise around the world. In the United States, over half such crimes are committed by people under the age of 21. Each year, 3 million young people in the United States fall victim to crimes at school. Almost 2 million of these incidents involve violence. Unfortunately, I am convinced that the risk of becoming a victim of bullying increases if one belongs to an ethnic minority in a disadvantaged situation, has learning difficulties in the normal classroom, shows difficulties with verbal expression, or is among the boys who challenge the traditional sexist stereotype,etc.
      School-based studies reveal that many violent behaviors have increased among children and adolescents.In my opinion, the whole society (including of course parents and teachers, but I'm thinking also on TV, adds, computer games,...)must set a good example to students, who have to learn to reject all forms of violence.
      
      The majority of studies carried out over the last two decades on violence in adolescence have focused on the violence found in schools, and on one of its principal forms, commonly termed "bullying", highlighting that: 1) it includes a range of behaviours (making fun of others, threats, intimidation, physical abuse, systematic isolation, insults); 2) it tends to cause problems that are repeated and prolonged over time; 3) it involves an abuse of power, with one pupil, who has the general support of a group, bullying another who is defenceless and cannot escape from the situation alone; 4) and it is maintained due to the ignorance or passivity of those around both bully and victim, who do not involve themselves directly.
      
      Contrary to popular belief, bullying takes place far more frequently inside the school environment than on the way to and from home, with the exception of intimidation with threats or weapons, which is the opposite way around. No differences were observed in relation to size of school or number of pupils per class. The playground is the most frequent location for physical violence and direct exclusion, while insults, nicknames and damage to belongings were more frequent in the classroom. There appear to be no significant differences between state-funded and private schools with regard to this problem.I think that we are dealing with a phenomenon which is a normal part of traditional school culture, given that throughout their school lives, all children seem to come into contact with it, as victims, aggressors or spectators (the most common role).
      I feel that learning to develop alternatives to violence (tensions and discrepancies can be expressed and conflicts resolved without turning to violence) such as communication, negotiation, mediation, etc., should enable tension to be confronted and conflicts resolved in a context of non-violence.
      Among the pupils who are victims of bullying I distinguish what according to my opinion are the two most common situations:
1) The typical victim, or passive victim, characterized by: a social situation of isolation, linked to low levels of assertiveness and difficulties in communication; highly passive behaviour, fear of violence and displayed vulnerability (inability to defend oneself when intimidated), high levels of anxiety, insecurity and low self esteem; characteristics which can be related to the tendency observed in several studies of passive victims to blame themselves for their situation and to be in denial, probably because they consider their own situation to be more embarrassing than the aggressors consider theirs (they sometimes appear to be proud of being aggressors).
2) The active victim, characterized by a social situation of isolation and a strong lack of popularity, being among the pupils most rejected by their classmates (more so than aggressors and passive victims). This situation could be the root cause of their selection as victims, although this, as in the previous case, could be compounded by victimization; an excessive and impulsive tendency to act, to act without choosing the most appropriate behaviour for each situation, with concentration problems (in some cases to the extent of hyperactivity) and a certain disposition to react with aggressive or irritating behaviours. These characteristics have led to type of victim being called "provocative victims", a term which should be avoided to prevent the common tendency to blame the victim, which can be found with respect to any type of violence, including that which occurs in schools. The situation of active victims is that which appears to have the worst long-term prognosis. 
      In order to prevent violence among adolescents I think it is necessary to:
First of all, to encourage cohesion among classmates and eliminate situations of exclusion which, if not prevented, tend to arise in the first years of school and throughout subsequent ones. In order to achieve this, it would be helpful to increase opportunities for facilitating this in classroom activities, such as cooperative learning, as well as developing the skills necessary to enable such cooperation, individually and in groups. These conditions not only aid the integration of all pupils, but also permit early detection (and solution) of interaction problems.
Also, to include activities specifically aimed at preventing victimization within violence prevention programmes, teaching students to: say no in situations that could lead to bullying; ask for help when it becomes necessary; be emotionally prepared so as not to feel guilty if one is a victim.
Last, to teach how to detect and overcome the different types of prejudice existing in society with respect to certain groups, because in order to overcome this it is not enough for the school not to be racist or sexist, but it must work actively and explicitly on the elimination of these problems, creating space for this on the curriculum within global programmes that provide experiences of equality, and help to eliminate all kinds of exclusion. 
      I also find that there is a greater risk of peer aggression in early adolescence, compared to later stages, peaking in the second and third years of compulsory secondary education (13-15 years of age). These are also the school years which are most difficult for teachers. As I see it, this may be explained by the fact that violence can be used in relation to a number of key aspects at this age, such as the reduction of uncertainty about one's own identity, integration into the reference group, and channelling the hostility produced by frustration and tension, as well as constituting a response to the discrepancy between adolescents's developmental needs and their situation at home and school. I have found five changes between primary and high school that can explain this increase in destructive behaviours: 1) greater emphasis on control and discipline; 2) deterioration in the relationship with teachers; 3) fewer opportunities to participate in class; 4) the fall in school marks; 5) lower levels, compared to those of primary teachers, of self-efficacy among high school teachers, whose role is reduced to simply teaching a particular subject. As a preventive measure, I propose changing the way school activities are structured so that they become more project-based, giving pupils a greater sense of personal involvement. 
      I conclude that to prevent violence at school, it is necessary to bring the two main contexts of education and upbringing, school and family, in line with current social changes, structuring the relationships and activities that take place there so that they are more coherent relative to the democratic values our society is trying to transmit.
      We must teach the children to reject all forms of violence. Furthermore, I propose cooperation as the fundamental principle for structuring school activity that can permit the adaptation of schools to a new situation, at different levels: between pupils, between pupils and teachers, between teachers, between the school and other social agents such as the family, municipal groups and associative movements.
      In my personal opinion, disciplinary measures must be used to contribute to keep away teenagers from violence by helping to generate cognitive, emotional and behavioural changes that enable the aggressor to put him/herself in the victim's position, to regret having used violence and to try to make up for the damage done. And I think indeed that the effectiveness of these three components improves when they are integrated in a single process. 

