      
      The "recovery" of the criminals is a very important part of the Spanish legal system; however, sometimes it seems that this aim of bringing these people back into society leaves the victims with a sense of injustice. The Spanish legal system is quite permissive with the criminals, forgetting that one of its main purposes is not only punishment and recovery, but also compensation to the offended part. In this essay I intend to give a general view of the actual situation and the necessity of a change.
      In our present society there has been an increasement of  a social consciousness towards criminality. It has been realised that an important percentage of  the criminals may be just the product of our society. Seeing this, it is society's responsibility to prevent criminality or to mend its consequences. This includes bringing back criminals into society, teaching them to leave among the rest of the people and giving them a second opportunity. Although, theoretically, this seems the right position, it seems to me too generalist. In my opinion, certain types of criminals should not be treated so gently. Sexual criminals for instance are specially dangerous and "well treated" by the legal system. Sentences for these type of crimes are often short and most of the time the sexual aggressor does not spend any time at all in jail. This, in my opinion is twice unfair for their victims. From my point of view, they must feel twice attacked. They have suffered first the sexual aggression, and secondly they feel not only abandoned, but even harmed by the system that does not protect them. This has been recently seen with the release of the "Violador de la Vall d'Hebron". The victims <Q>).  Besides, now we are fact that these type of criminals do not re-educate, they often repeat the same crimes. Some sectors have claimed for the use of  "pulseras antivioladores" or the chemical castration, but these methods have proved themselves useless in  a high percentage of  the cases.  Besides, the Spanish legal system does not contemplate the use of the chemical castration, as medicaments such as "Androcur" do not eliminate sexual capacity, as the prospect itself only indicates <Q> and it has to be combined with permanent psychological therapy. This has been proved it is not done by sexual criminals and besides, as Maria Jose Varela, one of the victims lawyer has said <Q> <R>. The use of  the "pulsera antivioladores" has also proved useless, what is needed are tougher and longer punishments, to keep this kind of people out of the society, as they represent a constant threat.
      Another field in which the system seems to have deceived the victims is that of the delays in judging and condemning the criminals. This lets illegal situations going on for months and even years.  Also, we can frequently see how clearly guilty criminals remain unpunished because of "legal tricks" or procedure failures. To my opinion, the problem with this is that the system puts emphasis on the legality and not on justice. So, if there are legal mistakes, the criminal remains free, despite having been proved his guiltiness, as  we have recently witnessed with the fact that Sergi Xavier, who attacked an immigrant for no reason, has not been prosecuted. It could be said that, until proven guilty, if a suspect does not seem to be a threaten to society, it is unfair to treat him as a condemned criminal. This point of view does not take consideration of the victim who, in my opinion, has to live terrified of the possibility of being easily found by their aggressors. 
      However, I feel that the most worrying aspect of this issue is to be found in the controversial "Ley del Menor". As it has been said <Q> <R>. These teenagers are neither adults, nor kids. However, their acts are those of adults, and they perfectly know the consequences of their acts. As this law makes them almost untouchable, they feel free to do as they wish. The problem, as I see it, with the "Ley del Menor" is the fact that it treats 12 years old kids in the exact same way as it treats 17 years old teenagers. I think that a person of 16 or 17 years is mature enough to be treated as an adult by the system. Besides, I find it unfair to apply this treatment to a person that will be 18 in a few months as it happened in the case of Sandra Palo's raping, torture and murder. As her mother said <Q>. As she has noticed, the murderers <Q> <R>. Taking all this into account, it is very difficult to draw a specific line between child ness and adulthood. I think the best option would be to consider each case in isolation, studying it in detail in order to find a fair and safe resolution for the victims and society as well.
      We can also see how in many cases, there's no legal action without the victim denouncing it.  This has been proved specially problematic in cases such as domestic violence. Some people have argued that denouncing your neighbour just because of what you think might be happening is an intromission in their private life. I feel that a life is more important. We cannot compare the risk of being wrong with the risk of letting someone harm another human being. I would not mind to even been accused of gossiping if your intentions are good. When they leave the responsibility of denouncing to the victim, the victim frequently feels guilty and afraid of doing so. As the victim does not denounce, the law does not intervene although is a criminal action. It will probably remain like that unless the victim ends up dead. What is needed is a greater social responsibility.
      Looking closely at the written laws, I think that the real problem is the lack of distinction between law and justice. An event can be perfectly legal, but clearly unfair. In our aim of being politically correct, we have made too much emphasis in treating correctly suspects in case they are innocent. To do this, we have established too many rules. The rigidity of these rules and the necessity of following them has left the victims unprotected and unsatisfied. Besides, as I see it, the law is too general, its function is to protect society, not the individual, and in doing so, it damages the individual in favour of society. What is needed is a deeper study of each case separately, to look for individual solutions in a general context, as each case is different.
      Leaving aside the technical side of the problem. For me, another worrying thing is the fact that in addition to what has already been said about the legal system, there is an important problem relating the human factor. There have been several cases in which the judge has proved himself narrow-minded, sexist, etc. This has resulted in situations that to my opinion are scandalising. It seems that it is also necessary a system to control these ways of thinking, a greater personal control of the judges in order to avoid unfair resolutions.
      To conclude I would like to remark the necessity of a system that not only re-educates and gives a second chance to criminals, but that protects the victims as well. This protection in my opinion has to be double as well. First it should prevent  this victims from suffering further harm, physical and psychological. Secondly, making them feel safe, heard and compensated, to help them bring back normality into their lives. This, together with a less general application of the law and closer study of each individual case could turn up into a system that unites both legality and justice.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
