
   Differences between men and women have been manifest for as long as history allows us to know. We assume that anatomically we have always been different, since we are provided with a quite different set of genitals and reproductive systems which differ yet complement one another. Moreover, most societies in the world have prospered and/or fallen through with men and women who had different functions depending on their sex, who have also shown quite disparate patterns of behavior. As a matter of fact, we only have to look around on the street any random day to grasp the divide: different clothes, different conversation choices and even different way of getting on the bus. Difference, in short, is palpable.
   Yet, even though most people acknowledge gender differences as an undeniable fact, the reasons for such differences is still a topic bound to heat up any conversation if it is brought up. Scholars and institutions in the world, as a matter of fact, are far from reaching agreement considering how opposite their views on the issue are to one another's. It seems that the main tension in the debate could be summed up, taking into account its varying nuances, on a biological or social difference basis. Thus said, this essay is to present the main conflicting views on gender differences and analyze them in perspective, so that we can draw an accurate conclusion after such analysis is carried out.
   It has been believed for quite a long time that gender differences are totally biological, and a lot of people still do. In 1989 a book called Brain Sex, by Anne Moir and David Jessel and which totally supports the biological theory, was published in England by Michael Joseph. Among other things, it said that  <Q>.
   This opinion is validated by countless studies and experiments that show that male brains are different from female brains and hormones define the sex of our behavior, as it were. For instance, researchers from the University of Wisconsin injected testosterone into unborn female monkeys, and their behavior (which is very sex-stereotyped in their species) totally switched to that of a male. 
   Even though all these data could lead us to conclude that gender differences are fully determined by biology, we cannot overlook the fact that some people swap gender roles in some specific situations. It is a fact that some men who are in prison and who had shown a typical male behavior up to that point actually assume feminine roles. They will present a shy, submissive, passive personality, and will be seen by other prisoners as a means of sexual pleasure. Then again, this does not seem to overthrow the biological theory, considering that people who changed their sexual role did so under hostile conditions they had not chosen and, therefore, we cannot be sure that such persons would have done the same in a normal situation. It appears to be more likely that they assume the "female role" in order to achieve social power and protection, not because they actually enjoy it. 
   Another approach to this matter is that of the evolutionists, who claim that gender differences have developed since the Stone Age. In their opinion, social patterns such as the patriarchal family are just a natural evolution of gender differences. That is, if in Prehistory it was men who went hunting and brought raw meat home, now men will do the same thing, only that instead of hunting in the woods they will lay bricks or diagnose terminal diseases. It would also be only natural that women stayed indoors taking care of the children, since evolution gave her the heaviest burden in the reproductive area. According to Robert Jastrow <R>, who has widely studied the evolution of the human brain, <Q>. 
   Feminists all over the world fierce attack this point of view, saying that it is just a sexist and stupid approach aimed merely at validating a "world of men" in which women would be the submissive creatures that have always been because of the male oppression. John Dupré, in his book Women: A Cultural Review, mildly attacks this theory. He says that most women do not want this nowadays; the modern woman looks for a partner who, among other things, is willing to share the upbringing process with her and accepts her longing for independence. If we take this to be true, the evolutional theory of gender difference would collapse. To be more precise, evolution (which is a quite slow process) could not possibly gender-differentiated behavior if all of a sudden women want things they did not want a few years ago and get closer to men in their approaches. However, the selfsame Dupré admits that many of these women could be lying, ashamed to admit that they actually crave for a dominant figure to keep her in her "rightful place".
   On the other side of the dispute we find the social difference approach, whose basic belief is that men and women are not so different from one another in essence as they are in real life. To put it another way, it is mainly the existing gender roles that create a divide between man and woman, and not their psychological differences, which are not so many according to people who support this point of view. Janet Shibley Hyde, PhD, of the University of Wisconsin in Madison, has a theory called the "gender similarities hypothesis". In her view, preestablished gender roles affect people's psychological traits and abilities (Teen-Talk Barbie® saying how tough math class is, for instance). That is, gender roles in a given social context greatly define personality more than the other way around (gender-defined personality naturally establishing gender roles in the world). In order to back her theory she made an experiment with several people telling them to behave like they had no particular gender; the result was women behaving in a more aggressive, "masculine" way and men behaving in a more passive, "feminine" way. 
   From such experiment it could be deduced that gender differences are indeed a social (subtle) imposition, something external to us that we accept so as to not be frowned upon by society or simply because it is definitely easier to take on an existing behavior mode rather than figuring out one on your own. In his book  Masculinities R.W. Connells points out this: <Q>.
   
   This seems to suggest that it is social context, and not biology, what makes people assume gender roles. It must be striking for those who believe on biological gender differences alone (and especially for evolutionists) to come across so different a bunch of cultures in which males have occupied roles so diverse. However, it is nonetheless true there is such a thing as sex hormones, which, according to the classical (biologistic) view, fully determine the divide between male and female conducts. Biologist David Crews argues that <Q> <R>. 
   On the other hand, if, as Crew suggests, gender is just a two-way thing, the existence of a third gender in many societies in the world would be yet to be explained. Several indigenous groups in South America, for instance, had the figure of two-spirited people who performed functions of both men and women. usually had sex with both different and same sex people and cross-dressed but did not necessarily cross-act. Once more, all this leads us to the social difference theory and therefore to the unavoidable catch twenty-two of the matter.
   This finally leads us to Queer Theory, which emerged in the last decade as a branch of Gender Studies. Its theorists (such as Jacques Derrida and Michel Foucault), according to Wikipedia, claim that identities are not fixed (and therefore cannot be categorized and labeled) because identities consist of many varied components and so it is wrong to categorize by just one characteristic. This sounds quite convincing, for most people would say that people are indeed something more that a certain gender or a certain gender-motored being. But then again others would say that this is yet another catch twenty-two, because if we were to take that as a dogma we could not talk about the color of roses (for there are not two roses in the world displaying an identical color) or anything else. Many scholars agree that in order to acquire knowledge in perspective it is necessary both to acquire it and be aware that it is a necessary convention, a needful lie, as it were. Some others (such as modern feminists for instance), on the other hand, regard this theory as one more step towards total equality between the sexes, due to the fact that, if gender division is demythologized, many sexist arguments against the equality of sexes would fall apart.
     It seems that this analysis of the opinions on gender differences has raised more questions than answers. All points of view we have come across were quite reasonable yet there was always data proving them wrong one way or another. It appears, therefore, that we are still far from reaching a foolproof theory on what makes men and women display differenciated behaviors in so many ways. The only thing we can do, it appears, for the time being, is being cautious when discussing the issue and not being too dogmatic about it, because we would be likely to say things that are not really true. 
   
   






