   It is needless to say that we cannot get to know everything that happens around us. There are just too many events to keep track of them all, and most of them would be too insignificant to make us care in case we knew about them. However, it is also true that we get to know less than we could, or would want to. From a five-second segment that can disappear out of a movie to major historical incidents that sometimes never make it to the news, censorship seems to dig its paw into the media whenever it can. According to the New Oxford Dictionary of English, censorship is <Q>.  What is it that we do not get to know? Why do we not get to know that? Is it really necessary that we do not know that? Why is it unacceptable? All these questions hover around most people's minds when they come to think about the problem of censorship in our century. It seems to be only natural that censorship is put into question these days more than in any other time of history; despite there has been censorship regulations in the world for over 1700 years, according to writer Mette Newth in a website called Beacon For Freedom, nowadays freedom of speech and of the press is too important an issue to overlook censorship in any way. Thus said, this essay is to present different opinions on the problem of censorship on a global scope which will then be analyzed through my perspective.
   Most people in favor of censorship have moral arguments. They claim that there are some things that cannot be broadcast for being a flagrant attack on common decency. Such things are mostly sex, drug use, bad language and violence. In New Zealand, the Cinematograph Film Censorship Act of 1916 called these as "<Q>. Their point is that people should not see or hear certain events because those are potentially harmful to them. This kind of mentality has succeeded in many countries, in which, for instance, they beep swearwords out on TV shows and cut out "spicy" parts in movies. 
   However, a lot of people strongly attack this point of view, saying that people should be allowed to see or hear whatever they want, without any restraint whatsoever. They feel that censorship is a restriction to the freedom of speech principle which so many countries have embraced so far, instead of a natural protection against the unpleasant, sick facts of life that the former people talked about. Schwimmer, a Hungarian woman processed in 1929 in a case called the United States vs. Schwimmer for saying that she would not take up arms to defend said country <R>, said in court that <Q>. Even so, many would say that freedom of speech is worth nothing if it means forcing people to watch or hear something that could potentially offend their sensibilities, for instance, randomly hearing a swearword in the middle of a show.
   I think freedom of speech should be above anything. While it is true that some people might be offended with certain sounds or images and they have a right to be protected from them, people's right to publish or broadcast freely is something stronger in my opinion. The world is just not Disneyland, and it is rather foolish to try to make it look as such. The sick, the uneasy, the unpleasant will always be there and we cannot pretend it does not exist by banning its broadcasting or its creative representations. We have to watch, for example, GI's dragging Iraqi prisoners with dog latches because we have to know what is going on if we want to have an opinion about it. I would even say that we have a responsibility to have an opinion about such things.
   This leads me to another consideration. Sometimes the reason that something is censored is basically political, not moral. The Iraqi prisoners' ordeal was banned in the United States, constituting what is the vilest form of censorship to me: topnotch manipulation of people. It could be argued that such censorship (i.e. of political undertone) is still moral, in a patriotic sense. This means that people should love their country more than anything else and therefore they should not be aware of the negative aspects of the latter. This is, in my opinion, an extremely hypocritical view that should not be tolerated. People have to know, and those who do not want to know will probably stay blind of their own free will even if they get the information. However, attempting to keep those who are willing to know blind by keeping the information from them is, in my opinion, appalling. George Orwell depicted the dangers of this kind of mentality quite chillingly in his novel 1984, which talks about an imaginary country where everything, including individual lives and feelings, is censored.
   Some might argue that, even so, not everything is "broadcastable". I could not agree more. If the law is broken and/or people are hurt in order to get fresh material for the audience, such as the so-called "snuff" movies, then it should be persecuted and never broadcast. The same applies to slander, copyright infringement and other offences that violate people's rights. However, the threshold of what is indisputably worthy of being censored and what is not. For instance, many people find bullfights revolting and yet they are on TV every now and then. On the other hand, many people find porn amusing yet the chances of seeing it on TV are awfully scarce. In short, censorable material, such as "broadcastable" material, is something quite hard to define sometimes. 
   Another view on the issue is that of people who think of censorship as a means of protecting children. Several people believe that children should be protected from information that is potentially harmful to them. Such information would be sex, drug use and some other adult themes they are not supposed to have an acquaintance with yet. This view is backed up by a wide research carried out by the American Academy of Pediatrics featured in the website Kids Health. This research states, among other things, that the average eighteen-year-old American boy or girl will have witnessed 200,000 violent acts on TV to that point. The AAP also points out that <Q>. 
   Very well, some might say, but that does not prove that TV or the media in general is responsible for children showing violent behaviors. A number of children aged three already show vicious and aggressive attitudes and it is very unlikely that they got it from watching TV. These people claim either biology or the environment to be responsible for this. However, Harvard psychiatrist Alvin Poussaint, in an interview for parenthood.com website, said that TV does have an influence on children's behavior. He has studied a lot of cases and he declares that <Q>.  One of his cases was a child so obsessed with Power Rangers that he would <Q> after watching the show, and he would even get in fights at school afterwards. Pouissant also regards the child's environment as a key factor in violent behavior nonetheless. 
   The way I see it, children should not stand in the way of the freedom of speech at all. I do not agree with people who argue that children should be blindfolded to the dark side of human nature, or to some adult themes that are not necessary dark for that matter. In my opinion, prohibition means temptation. That means that people are in general more attracted to things which are either outlawed or frowned upon (or both) than commonplace ones, and that includes children. The first cigarette, the first beer, even the first time one has sex feels like an adrenaline overdose if the feeling of breaking a rule is present, for children are too sensible not to sense that there are things around them which are "not OK". The same thing happened right after General Franco's dictatorship in Spain got to an end; countless erotic movies (most of which of the lowest artistic quality) popped up out of the blue in response to the brutal censorship that had existed during the previous era. Oscar Wilde, in his famous novel The Picture of Dorian Gray, said that <Q>.
   Some people might attack my point of view saying that children have to be protected from certain information and scenarios because most parents want them to be. I totally respect that, yet censorship is not a synonym for parenthood; if parents are concerned with what their children watch then I suggest they watch with them and talk to them about what they see. There are many ways of talking about sex or drugs, each of which can be adequate and healthy for a certain age. Although the "blindfolding" attitude saddens me, yet parents have the right to raise their children as they see fit, and I have to respect that, but I cannot respect their trying to blindfold me by means of censorship. 
   We have by now dealt with a few views concerning this awkward issue. People concerned about children, people who support censorship, people who do not... I would finish this essay saying that freedom of speech and information are paramount, and nothing should get on their way, aside from the exceptions that we mentioned earlier. In my opinion, none of the opinions I have discussed so far are strong enough to justify censorship in any way. 
   



