
   Prostitution has been present from the very beginning of human history in most societies up to the present dates. As the world has evolved, people who exercises prostitution has found new ways of procuring clients (TV, the internet, newspapers, etcetera). However, even though the form might have changed throughout the centuries, its content has really not: prostitution is, as stated in the New OXFORD Dictionary of English, <Q>. Despite this, legality regarding this profession has had different approaches in every culture, time and country. Now that the debate is in an impasse in Spain, whose comfortable politicians allow prostitution to be in an uncomfortable position of legal uncertainty, I feel compelled to write this essay in order to set out my conviction that said profession should be legalized and the pointless controversy about it gotten over with for everybody's sake.
   Before we go any further, I must define what kind of prostitution I am defending. White slavery has thousands of victims every year, and it is considered the XXI century bondage. As long as our essay is concerned, it consists in luring or compelling people (mostly women) into a certain county with expectations of a better future and are then forced to become prostitutes under threat either on the street or locked up in brothels. Within some countries, moreover, there sadly exists trafficking of human beings by law, in many of its perverse forms: parents having the right of selling their daughters to older men for marriage, minors being sold to brothels, etcetera. Also, dire destitution compels a big number of people to become prostitutes. Perhaps one of the most devastating testimonies of this is the picture of an eleven-year-old pregnant girl, Mary Simpson, a prostitute in Victorian England. Unfortunately, this still happens in many countries in the world. In short, all these are foul ways of prostitution to me, and I believe that most people, at least in the Eastern society, will agree with this. Therefore, the kind of prostitution I intend to defend is that in which a single or several adults (although the age that makes you an adult might be yet another tricky issue I do not want to get into) decide to engage in sexual / escort activities that do not affect any third person with one or more adults for an economical retribution (otherwise we would not be talking about prostitution, would we?).
   Thus said, I am going to pose a quite obvious question: Why does prostitution exist? The also obvious answer in my opinion is that it exists because of people's sexual needs. Architects and bricklayers would not exist if people did not have housing needs, doctors would not exist either if people did not have health problems and neither would stockbreeders and farmers if people did not have any need to eat at all. Some might say that it is not the same thing, for people cannot live without food but they can live without sex. That is actually true, due to the fact that many religious people in the world such as priests and nuns lead an apparently happy life without having any sex at all (that we know of). And yet, we probably would not need paintings or motion pictures to keep ourselves alive either and yet we have museums and movie theaters all over the world, which are, I assume, legalized in every country in the world. So what makes a museum different from a brothel in terms of meeting people's need of "entertainment"? 
   Morality does. The expansion of certain religions throughout history until the present age such as Catholicism or Islamism has been, in my opinion, very helpful to the demonizing and punishing sex, and so to make different societies in the world see it as something awful or something right only within certain bonds, like marriage.  Nietzsche once wrote that <Q>.  My point is that there is nothing wrong with sex at all, and, even though people have every right to believe there is, they have no right to interfere with the law with arguments that have no empiric or logical basis whatsoever.
   From here we come to the whole hypocrisy of all of this: some people believe that, if prostitution is kept outlawed, it will subsequently curb. What I think they really mean is that, by keeping it banned, their appalling façade will remain "untainted". For instance, a very conservative Spanish journalist, Pedro J. Ramírez, who has never defended the legalization of prostitution but rather otherwise, was actually caught some ten years ago having sex with a prostitute, performing several non-conservative practices involving straps and urine in a controversial video which, apart from being an obvious violation of his right to privacy, did put his bigotry into question. They seem to want prostitution in the shadows, which is where Spanish regulations regarding it are, due to the lack of a sensible debate and, probably, fear of being frowned upon in the political sphere and by the public opinion.
   Nevertheless, the most important argument to me in favor of the total legalization of prostitution is the safety and welfare of the people who practice this profession. In the Netherlands, prostitutes enjoy the same rights (and suffer the same obligations, like paying taxes) as any other kind of worker. This makes it safer because, in those circumstances, prostitutes are more protected by the authority and unions in case of abuse, and they are also more likely to practice their profession indoors if they want, which means getting rid of the uncertainty that practicing it outdoors entails (call girls, for instance) and enjoying the closed-circuit security that rooms in the Netherlands provide. Very well, one might say, but that does not really end with illegal prostitution, for there will be prostitutes who will be down for some undeclared income and who therefore will be back on the streets and out of the law. I could not agree more. As a matter of fact, some prostitutes do not want their profession to be legalized because they feel that they make more money in the sexual black market. Furthermore, if we look around, there are people on the street selling burned CDs and DVDs even though they have been legal for quite a while. But my question is, if DVD movies were illegal, would its black market not grow a lot more? That is for the authorities to fight along with the trafficking of human beings (which still exists in Holland and which the authorities fight), not an argument against its legalization.
   Some who speak against prostitution allege that it is an incubus of venereal diseases. Although it is true that sexual intercourse carries the risk of becoming infected from the most harmless ones to the most lethal and awful ones (such as AIDS, one of the dramas of the last decades), we nowadays have a wide selection of instruments to prevent infections (none of which are a hundred percent useful though), condoms being the most popular and safer ones. Besides, legal prostitution would be regulating that, with the subsequent increase in safety during their sexual encounters: prostitutes should be forced to work in a safe way, and clients should oblige by law. It is true that many prostitutes in the world are HIV positive (given the marginal circumstances they work in), although statistics are very confusing about it due to lack of data. Yet once that prostitution was legalized the authorities would see that the safety measures above mentioned were put into action so that no one else, neither prostitute nor client, would become infected. Eventually prostitutes who had AIDS (or the flue for that matter) would obviously have access to the same medical assistance and sick leaves as the rest of the workers. It is quite remarkable how in the porn industry there has not been almost any case of venereal infection throughout its legal history, even though they do not use condoms most of the times. The reason for this is that they have STD tests set on them on a very regular basis. This is, in short, an example of a legal safe sex-related profession whose steps should be followed by prostitution and become what it should have always been: a legal safe profession, if you will excuse the repetition.
    I believe to have proven clearly all along this essay that there is no reason why prostitution should not be legalized, thus receiving the status that it deserves as a profession and its professionals the rights and duties inherent to legal workers. Let us hope that this debate resumes in Parliament soon enough.



