Society is continually undergoing change: economical, political and religious to name a few. It is constantly restructuring. But moving further into layers of society, it seems that people's moral have changed over the last years: homosexuality, divorce, drugs, sex, alcohol and so on are considered now as normal when before they were put into question. Laws dealing with abortion, drug legalization, divorce, and a lot of other moral based topics now discussed in politics were once considered illegal with no regards to be discussed are now being debated. And, in the field of human relationships, families are continually breaking, people remarrying, couples looking for sex gratification outside their own relationship...  The aim of this essay is refers to relationships outside the couple. The point I intend to discuss about in this essay is fidelity, or for a better word, infidelity: Once the action has taken place, what are people's feelings and opinions about whose fault is it?
Infidelity is defined by Then as an agreement and understanding that marriage vows implicitly and explicitly include a promise of "forsaking all others". When this promise is broken, infidelity has occurred in a marriage <R>. But infidelity doesn't have to include necessary sexual relations. According to Lusterman, infidelity can take on several different forms. He defines an affair as <Q>. Lusterman explains in his definition that <Q> <R>. What is meant by this is that although most people may feel that infidelity is reached when you have sex with another different from your partner, you can feel the same deception by another means. Sexuality may be an important bond in a relationship, but it is not determinative. The feeling seem to happen because it is a fact that can be attested and not just based on suspicions. 
It may seem a general thought that infidelity is committed by men more frequently than by women. But, it is important to recognise that research maintains that, on the contrary of the usual belief, infidelity is committed more or less by the same percentage of men as women. Nevertheless, it seems to be the case that men and women commit adultery in different ways. Infidelity expert Ms Ruth Houston argues <Q> <R>, or, that is to say, while men commit infidelity in seek of sex, women do it for emotional reasons, looking for a partner to whom they can rely their joys and problems and feel attached to as if they had recovered the love they once felt.  <Q> <R>.  Pointing on this same topic, women seem to be cheating when they are not getting that "something" from their partner, and they seek it from another way, that is, other men. So, many think that because of it, once a woman cheat, she will cheat forever.  Teddy Shabba, a Dating and Relationship Coach for men, states that: <Q> <R>.
Cheaters, the unfaithful part of the couple, are usually blamed. It is completely comprehensible as they are the ones who commit the infidelity. But, on the other hand, they may also experience a feeling of self-blame: most of them repent from their actions, even consider them as errors. They claim that when the involvement occurs, they are not insensitive to the situation just for being the active part on it. Marriage counsellors give the advice that they may want their own space, and be questioned about which their emotions and feelings are. <R>. 
On the other side, it often occurs that the spouse committing the infidelity blames the other. This judgement, however, occurs mainly on the cheating part. They claim not to be their fault for committing the cheat. Their main reasons are that their spouses are not so engaged in the marriage as they have to be: routine, business travels, the fact of not giving them the attention that they need are many of the reasons with which they justify their unfaithfulness. Some of them may even argue that their partners don't bring them happiness. Those reasons may support their infidelities. Nevertheless, it seems necessary to say that these people usually continue with their extramarital relations. But this cannot be made a generalization. Not all of these cheaters think so. They blame themselves instead of their partners. These cheaters feel the fault of having committed infidelity. They feel guilty for having looked for experiences outside their marriage. And they also contradict the reasons above given. It is impossible to reach happiness if you are not committed. You must make your best as well as your partner. And it is your fault if you don't try it. Preacher David Wilkerson states in his article Adultery, Wife-Swapping, Cheating & Divorce (1977) that happiness is not a reachable state in life. He explains that happiness is not a requirement you have to make to the other as if they owe you. 
There is also a third opinion which support that the fault is not on either of the components of the couple. It is argued by many people that the fact to blame is due to external factor. It can be caused by a tiresome situation reached by the couple, either by a feeling of abandonment tied to the routine of doing every day the same thing, or also it conveys a previous feeling of undervalued work at home, as it is the case of unfaithful housewives. Preacher David Wilkerson, in his article which talks about divorce and relationships states that <Q>.
As it has been seen in this essay there are many points of view about who is to be blamed in infidelity. But none of them seem to be quite reasonable as a whole. Infidelity is not a fact of only one person or only one component like situation or feelings. It is rather balanced to think that it is an accumulation of them all, as none of them seem as powerful as to cause a higher fact like infidelity in marriage. Nonetheless, among them, blaming the cheating part is quite justified, as they are the ones who commit infidelity. On the other side, the least convincing of them is the argument that refers to the cheated part. Their attitudes may be helpful to push to commit infidelity, but it is to remember that they are not in any way taking part on the infidelity. And the situation of the betrayed people is not considered such a very persuasive argument in most of the cases. It may clear the way for the cheater to unfaithfulness, but it is not enough.
To summarize, this essay has presented many arguments that defend or contradict who is to blame when unfaithfulness has taken place: Is it the active part, the passive one or the circumstances in which it occurs? It doesn't really matter so much. It has happened and there is no turning back. What people have to do now is to decide. Some couples break up, some reaffirm their marriages and others decide to continue on cheating while their partners deny the continual cheat. But it is to remember that, although infidelity is not something wished in any case, everything is not meant to be bad and couples can perfectly survive a dishearten fact like this, if the right methods are employed.


