Nowadays society is dealing with a problem revealed throughout the XXth century, although it seems to have been present for as long as human conscience and couple foundations: domestic violence. Domestic violence is defined by the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service in the United Kingdom as <Q>. In this essay I intend to express my opinion against domestic violence and the disagreement with many of the prevention and solution politics that have been spread by the government and the institutions responsible for this area.
From my point of view, nobody, men or women, should be object of any kind of violence. My argument is that in a civilized society all persons deserve to be respected and have the obligation to be respectful to others. There isn't any kind of justification for the abusing of another person. Whatever his social, religious or ethnic condition may be, and even less a person you love and with whom you are supposed to form up a family. It seems to me rather unreasonable that considering something that may hurt not only physically but also the integrity of a person can ever be justified and even more recommendable. Nevertheless statistics show that domestic violence accounts for 16% of all violent crime, has more repeat victims than any other crime (on average there will have been 35 assaults before a victim calls the police), and it is the largest cause of morbidity worldwide in women aged 19-44, greater than war, cancer or motor vehicle accidents and will affect 1 in 4 women and 1 in 6 men in their lifetime.

Domestic violence is in most cases never reported, and many of the reported ones are usually removed. The majority of the victims are afraid of what the repercussions can be. There is a wide range of repercussions: new aggressions, social isolation, as some examples, and the worse of all them: death. Adn journal <R> publishes an inform in which is thrown out that although between April and June of this year aggression notifications have increased in an 8% (31789 cases) the 10,15% of the victims rejected to go on with the procedure. I personally believe that this is related to the fact that once reported the aggressions the aggressor in the better case will be retained for a couple of days, or something as simple as an arrest warrant, and after that he or she can act take vengeance. In my opinion it is hard to recognize and believe that someone who loves you has hurt you, accuse him, and after that bear with the continuous fear of what the consequences after it will be, and as I feel it, when you decide to give the first step there are not enough measures taken which support you the protection and security you need in that tough moment.
Domestic violence is often supported and approved. As an example, a great majority of the developing countries (most of them involving Islamic religions) believe that women are inferior to men, and beating them is one more of men rights.  Most people also have in mind a new some years ago about a policeman who wrote a book about how to batter a woman without leaving any signal. And furthermore, some people believe that slapping is justified, that if mistreated victims are beaten because they provoke and deserve it. In my opinion, any act of violence is never justified, no human being on earth deserves it anyway. Social beliefs are, as I feel it, born out of education, and this may be the main problem in society, receiving an education where it is being registered a dramatically increase of violence without almost anyone concerning about it. And another point to be stand out is that domestic violence violates the Universal Declaration of Human Rights concerning many articles about equality, security and dignity, for example, Article 5: <Q>
Punishment, even when it is of a higher degree, seems not to be effective anyway. Although no crime should be left free of punishment, the effectiveness of this measure is put in question. Penal Law Profesor Miren Ortubay from the Universidad del País Vasco states that: <Q>.
Spanish law has changed from the 70s to the present in reference to domestic violence. What was first punished with a mere arrest now is supposed to be punished with an imprisonment from six months to three years, but in a great number of the cases this punishment is not effected just because aggressors don't possess previous antecedents. Furthermore, what the law promoves is the punishment for the action, when the abuse has occurred and the harm is done, instead of preventing the crime. The consequence of this, as I see it, besides the non-eradication of the problem, is creating even more insecurity in the victim.
Men are also object of domestic violence. Women are the main aim of law and antidomestic violence politics, because they are mainly the ones who suffer it, but cases occurred to men are also reported. Besides there are many myths about it. Some of them we can read from web: most people believes that domestic violence does never happens to men, men who experience abuse are weak or not 'real' men, the law only protects women who experience domestic violence but does nothing to help men. Nevertheless male victims suffer added psychological effects, as information provided by BBC reports: they feel they are the only ones and it is hard for them admitting it is happening. BBC research also throws out that the 2001/02 British Crime Survey (BCS) found 19 per cent of domestic violence incidents were reported to be male victims, with just under half of these having a female abuser. I feel this is rather unjust: for me society is prejudiced and that only can cause more problems to men who suffer domestic abuse.
The welfare of the children is argued to be the most important reason for not carrying out parental separation. It is argued that either divorce or separation can cause psychological problems in the offspring. It is true that any kind of breaking in the familiar nucleus will affect a children in some way or other, but on the other hand, maintaining a relationship in which there is an scenery of habitual violence to one of the parents, and in which the child lives with the fear of and to what may happen with his parents, and with himself, the fear of being also beaten, which sooner or later will occur, is not, in my opinion, the appropriate environment for childhood development. Joseph S. Volpe in his work Effects of Domestic Violence on Children and Adolescents: an Overview tells: <Q>
As research shows, bearing domestic violence not only affects the actual state of the children, but also has long-term consequences. Personally speaking there isn't any better reason for finishing with what will cause so many bad effects in children who are unaware to understand what is happening inside home.
To conclude this essay I present here a brief summary of the exposed opinions I have given: that there is too much silence among the victims; punishment is not enough; violence support is a horrible thing which only causes more harm; that society is wrong about what concerns to male victims and that children shouldn't be used to justify the fact of putting up with this abuse. There are actually many things to be improved about this social cancer, all starting, of course, from the education. As some examples it can be organising more sensitizing courses, insisting on the equal treatment and finishing with all those prejudices about differences between men and women as human being and favouring the equal treatment in all areas. Protection measures should be also reinforced as what is related with post-accusation because hardly ever a simple removal order doesn't guarantee anything. Some kind of sensitization is also to be taking about male domestic abuse to concern people that this problem also exists and it is as important as female one, as important is providing help for children who suffer this problem at home and more effective solutions to mothers with children. But I'm afraid this is a hard work to do.

