     
      Ever since the history of mankind began, man has been practising different forms of 
worship and piety. There was no nation on earth unattached to a religion and performing its rites 
in different ways and it involves concrete moral codes. These norms must be completed by the 
believers of this religion and sometimes they are not accepted by the whole of society. 
Considering these facts and the historical evidences, we realize that the existence of religion and 
worship in the course of man's history is clear proof that religion is not a passing phenomenon. 
A present-day situation concerning this topic is the one that we live in Spain that take away the 
Christian church authority. Nowadays, Spain is considered a secular state, so everyone is 
supposed to be free of choosing its religion. However, the real situation is rather different 
because for instance, at schools, there is only one subject aimed to Christian religion specifically 
and which is compulsory for student's grades and also a part of the national income goes to the 
Christian church. This educational system is tried to be changed by the socialist government 
which pretends to remove the religion subject and consequently to reduce aids to Christian 
religion. In this essay, I intend to analyze the different viewpoints that some people have 
concerning this topic and also I willy try to provide some possible solutions.
      To begin with, there are some people who feels that religion is a fundamental key to 
construct a good society. They also believe that <Q> <R>. Not only these people think that 
religion is essential in schools but also they argue that the Word of God is necessary in order to 
have personal success. President George Washington stated: <Q> <R>. After pointing out this point of view, we must notice that these prople consider 
their religion as the basis of their lives. Furthermore, they believe that the reason for the 
increasing number of incidents at school is funded in contemporary pupils' lives without a God 
image. It is true that violence is increasing at schools very dramatically but I think that the 
accusing argument of not having religious influence is quite weak and it does not have to do with 
nowadays reality. Firstly, some decades ago, education was ruled by a very strict discipline in 
which, primarily religious schools, applied physical and psychological punishment to the 
students that did not obbey certain compulsory norms such as praying, knowing the Bible, etc. 
So, I feel, that it is not a matter of education without religion because children only do what they 
see in their background. Children perception of the world is influenced by a lot of factors such as 
their country, their neighbourhood, the TV programmes they watch or even their own character. I 
feel that the lack of religion is only an option of the educational system and that violence at 
school could be fought off by taking some measures like penalizing certain harmful behaviours 
and not by introducing a religion subject. Then, this viewpoint also focused religion as the key of 
a succesful life in different fields. It was mentioned before by an American politician that God 
means to knows our roots and the way to reach moral, spiritual and financial state. I feel that this 
argument is comparing faith with politics and it appears to me that both terms are not very 
similar because it connects the idea of deep devotion to God with the self-success as a reward. I 
would like to  comment on this that we have been always taught that religion has, as its base, to 
pray in order to feel protected spiritually not as a material act.
      Another point of view concerning the need of religion is the one from the people who 
sees religion as a swindle and as a backwardness. <Q> <R>. Along the 
history, it has been demonstrated, with the past of time, that the majority of religions had as their 
purpose to control human mind. In addition, they are pretty exhaustive in the sense that religions 
often create a clear line among good and bad acts. The consequences of these divisions are that 
believers are supposed to follow these rules, to behave properly, so they are in a kind of constant 
threaten in their religion. On the contrary, I am not of the opinion which claims that only weak 
people believe in religion because they can also have several interpretations depending on the 
individuals'mind. I also agree with this opinion in the way that human beings always seem to 
have the necessity of believing in something transcendental, a piety, instinct rooted. For this fact, 
I feel that human should believe more in himself, phisically and in his mental abilities such as 
creativity.
      Finally, there are some people who believe that religion is a free choice and that every 
individual must be respected in their inner beliefs too. According to Jennifer Gable's opinion, 
<Q> <R>. It seems a quite logical argument in the sense that these people 
defend the idea of being free to choose religion subject to study because they see schools as a 
public entity in which every student; Christian, Buddist, Muslim, etc, must attend to learn Maths, 
Languages,...but not religion. Religion is seen, for them, as an external matter that have to be 
practised at their correspondent religious places; churches, mosques... A personal choice not to 
be taught at public schools. I find some weaknesses in this argument such as the radical 
elimination of religion theme. I consider that religion should not be evaluated as a compulsory 
subject but I believe that students should learn more about the different religions around the 
world in order to have a better knowledge and to create a good coexistence between different 
cultures. 
      	To conclude, we have seen some contemporary points of view about the religion 
issue. First of all, there are people that establish the word of God as the basis of society and even 
of themselves. Secondly, we have seen the other extreme; atheism in which believing in God 
nowadays means ignorance. On balance, there are some people who respect all religions but they 
do not allow its teaching at schools. On the basis of this, I would like to add a possible 
recommendation to this controversial topic which is rooted in the respect to everyone. It would 
be a good idea to avoid ideologic radicalisms that would harm coexistence around the world. 
Leaving apart if we believe in God or not, we must assume that religion issue has still much 
importance in our present-day society.
        
        
        
        
        
        

        
        
        
 
 
 
 


4

