
	In our present society, lifestyles and the way people carry out their lives change 
as society moves forward. There are some phases in human beings'  lives such as 
breeding that, unlike some decades ago, now are often questioned. The reason for these 
reflections is rooted in the present society structure and it leades contemporary women 
to think about having babies or not in their future. According to Cecilia Pyper, a 
gynaecology proffesor of Oxford University, <Q> <R>.
According also to a sociologist source, <R> the traditional family frame has given way to other 
social structures that some time ago were unthinkable: homosexual marriages, alone 
women that decide to adopt children, women who decline to artificial insemination and 
even women who choose a homosexual male friend as the father of their babies. In this 
essary, I intend to show the different viewpoints that some people have concerning the 
contemporary mother's situation.
       To begin with, there are some people who believe that contemporary mothers are not 
enough socially supported. They argue that a worker woman that is willing to have children, 
should be backed by her company. Some companies have taken some measures such as making 
more flexible timetables or building a day nursery attached to the company one. According to 
Barreda paediatrician doctor, <Q> <R>. At this point, some people think that economy is 
also a trouble for familiar stability. <Q> <R>.
	Another point of view concerning contemporary mother's situation is the one that 
defend the idea of women being mother exclusively. People who believe this, argue that when 
a woman becomes mother, she must be dedicated to her baby and to her family. Also, this 
viewpoint is supported by the idea that the motherhood state means abandoning the career.
       Ana Diaz, a 74 years old woman, assures that <Q>. However, this retrospective case is not out of date according to Sheyla 
Morataya-Fleishman who affirms that, <Q> <R>. This could be a realistic perspective since several decades ago women 
were subordinated to men and they perhaps could not develop as individuals personally or 
culturally. However, now it might be quite different because maybe women have some values 
to contribute in a job like organization, fraternity or comprehension.
	Another opinion focus is the one that defend motherhood and working as innate skills 
in a woman. According to Carol Iannone, it is not neccessary to ask for help to the Government 
or to the male partner because now is time for the "independent mother". This woman, 
according to Iannone, is perfectly able to manage with household chores, with her job and with 
her child doing all these things properly. <Q> <R>. Furthermore, according to an interview made to Cristina Bernal, who is the 
author of  "Todo por un hijo" <R> insists that 
there is an offsprings generation called "the kids of the key", in which they arrive at home, 
open with their key because there is nobody at home and then they drop on the sofa watching 
television or doing her homework alone. 
       It could be considered as a reasonable argument because it is true that, instead of living 
a familiar life in community, they seem to live a more individual life. Also, it seems logical the 
argument of the independency of women in the way that, it has been always said that mothers 
have a stronger bond with their children than fathers. On the contrary, it seems a little weak 
argument because this new concept of "superwoman" maybe one day she might need some 
external help because of an illness or whatever. Even, it could be seen as a selfish attitude 
towards her child because this kid, perhaps, could suffer from some affective lacks due to his 
mother decision of living apart.
	So then, there are many arguments that reflect how mother lives nowadays. The main 
arguments that defend a better situation in motherhood show that it is essential to change some 
aspects in mother's jobs in order to mother and child's adaptation. On the other hand, some 
people feel that motherhood is such a spiritual state that it leads women to abandon her job and 
to be dedicated to her family life completely. On balance, work and motherhood are also seen 
as a compatible combination with some external help or even without it. On the basis of this, it 
would seem to be a good idea that giving birth a baby, in our present society, were a happy 
event in which parents and child could live well. Socially, it could be positive if companies and 
Government could reach an agreement between familiar and labour life.

