



      One of the basic Human Rights is one's life and the safety of no being attack overall by a terrorism band. Since 1968, in Spain there's have been over 1000 murders by a spanish terrorism band called ETA. Nowadays,  about twenty members  of the commando have been arrested and probably the head of the Basque government, Juan José Ibarretxe, will be arrested to, for meeting with a terrorism band, althoug his intencions were peacefulls. So, at this point, we have, on the one hand, what we are able to do under the  framework of the law, and, on the other hand, what we should do attending to  similar process as in Ireland with the IRA (Irish Republican Army). In this essay I will try to find some solutions concerning to  the problem with ETA in spain.
      
      The main differences between ETA and IRA, according to: <R> is that: ETA murders for an pro-independece cause meanwhile in Ulster together to politics, there are a social-religious conflict that bring face to face catholics with protestants. Furthermore, Ulster is not even 10% of País Vasco's competences. And following the mentioned article, there is no country in the world where one of its autonomous region enjoy the level of self-government that the País Vasco has. To finish with this link, another difference is that the Ireland peace process starts thanks to IRA disposal at giving up arms.  On the other hand, as Amelia Fernández suggests in his study <R> the Ireland  peace process was sucessful due to the fact that government decided not to publicizes any of IRA's attacks, in order not to advertise the band itself, and to undermine impact. This won't be able in Spain according to freedom of speech law. And from my point of view, this is one of the most important theme of this issue, every time that ETA attack is seen by the whole country and further on, and in my opinion this is what ETA wants: be the center of attention.
      I strongly believe that one possible solution to this problems we have already discuss is to change the law concern to freedom of speech in order not to advertise the terrorist band as we have said before, not giving prominence to every movement that the band does, most of the time, just to not being forgotten. Some people could argue that this lack of information  will plunge people into unawareness, and will remind people of  Francoist censorship therefore the public opinion would't be agree. Notwithstanding, it appears to me a menor prejudice that could became in a lasting peace beneficial for everybody.

	Under political framework I would like to comment briefly what have happened in Spain during the last decades. Jose María Aznar (Spanish Prime Minister from 1996 to 2004 for "Partido Polular"), had meeting with the terrorist band and bring near all  ETA'S prisioners imprisioned all over Spain. Those hadn't have a negative repercussion because of the Partido Polular could counted with the leader of the opposition support: PSOE. On the other hand we have the action taken by José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero the current Prime Minister for PSOE, from 2004 to nowadays. Zapatero, was firmly criticized for freed Juan de Chaos (perpetrator of 25 murderers which declared himself  being, in no way,  regretful) however, not only we don't know if it was or not a treaty of a negotiation, but also, Zapatero had to take the decision without the opposition supporting. 

	A possible solution to this problem, could be a unity policy (that is exactly what we don't have nowadays) in order of decide what is necessary for the people and not for a political band. Policy experts could maintained that this broke the basic principle of supply and demand, and the new policy team will act without opposition, and it would be negative for the country. But I will like to argue ETA take advantage of this dissension into his own benefit and this is worse not only for Spain but also for the rest of world in which ETA could act, like in Frace, as many times before. Furthermore, I think it will be necessary a international cooperation too that takes into account that we are talking about assassin and no matter about fortiers or languages.

      The negotiation is a strategy inside every anti-terrorims policy and this is what will debilitated ETA, for that reason I think that is one of the first solution that we should have into account in order to get common consent and a commot profit. On the other hand, as María Rudilla said: <Q>, this is support by the truce-tramp of 1999 by ETA hands that put dead people over the 'negotiation's table' and it was just a way of reach time not a peace mood. But we have to focus on the resolutions of the problem that is dead people, terrorist attack, blackmail, extortion, etc., and form my own opinion this is somenthing important enough to fight for.
      
      To sum up, I will like to make a little summarize of the main ideas of this essay. There are not only politicals, religius, historicals difference between the terrorist band Irish Republican Army but also there are a considerable diference in what each band demand and this is and obstacle once it's time to find a solution to finish with deaths. As far as I'm concerned I've suggest some solutions in order to put all the efforts  in group as a main characteristics in order not to let to the terrorism band empty space which give them much more force. Secondly a policy union will erradicate, from my point of view, the threats and extortions that the band uses to use to intimidate not only political teams or guards, but also  civilians.On the other hand, it would be great, as I said before, to make a international cooperations to avoid to  unpunished  escapes  that would make stronger the band's leadership. For all those reason, I strongly believe that a urgent joint decision should be taken for the everyone well-being .
  
