


People want to be secure and want criminals to be put in jail. People really need to trust in a kind of system to be in charge of this section of society, and need to feel theirselves secure. The actual spanish penitenciary system gives what is called the "grades of prisoners", they can be in the third grade, in the second grade or ordinary régime,  that are the mayor of them, or in the first grade, those who are isolated. The prisoners although having commited a crime, are not completely isolated from society, because this would not be productive for their social rehabilitation.
From my point of view prison is effective in some cases, and it is injust or does not make sense in others. I will explain what cases are this, depending on the type of crime, or the type of person that must or must not be imprisoned, the type of prison, the country laws,...etc.



Many people argue that everyone who have done something wrong must be in jail. They think that the privation of liberty is essential to reduce crime, and the jail is really effective in that way. But I do not agree. We could go back to the times of Franco, a dictature in which the jails were saturated of people that their only sin was to think contrary from this régime. As the Pro Human Rights Asociation of Andalucia says in a recent study of 2006, Spain is thought to be one of the countries with less crime figures, specifically 50 infractions per 1000 inhabitants, yet this country has a great number of imprisons. What I'm trying to say is that the prison is used as almost the only way to solve the insociability of some sectors of the population, instead of solving the problem in the root.What I think does not work is the education, and the political system. The prison is used to maintain this problematic people far from the rest of society, in order to reeducate them there. But we must think, is really the prison re-educated them?. The saturation of the jails does not help, so we could think in other solutions for this people. The 70% more or less of the prisoners are drugg adicts, and the sentences should incorporate an obligation of taking part in a desintoxication program, not only the confinement of this person. There could be some alternative solutions as for example the privations of other rights. But it is important to take into account what type of delinquent we are dealing with. There is another experiment that is nowadays being used in some statal prisons that is the implantation of respect modules in which the prisoners improve the interpersonal relations and are encouraged values such as renponsability, fraternity and help to the community.


Talking now about the functionality of the prison, I think that it does not work completely. For example, the prison is a reclusive system, that is thought to be a punishment rather than to be a place in which you are reeducated. I know that a person who has raped someone, or killed someone, must suffer a punishment, but, what kind of 
punishment? Should be that person raped or killed in the same way he raped or killed?. This person must be imprisoned. But only that would not be enough. I think that because a person who is imprisoned for a period of time, I doubt if this person learns something about that confinment. In some prisons of United States, the prisoners depending on their grade, have the right of doing a degree or study inside the jail, that, as a way of letting him or her reintroduce himself again into society.When this person goes out of jail, not only he is free again, also he has been able to study, something that not everyone is able to afford to do. And in some cases, there are studies that the delinquents reoffend. It is true that many people is convinced that allowing the prisoners to study and learn is something positive to them. I agree with that but only in special cases, those cases in which the person really deserve it, in which the person really uses it to reincorporate himself into society, those people that really use it as a second chance, and not use that right for bad purposes.




Another theme that worries society is the police brutality inside the jails. Would be the jail an effective system of reeducation if there is police abuse?. I think it would not.
There is a report called "Mirando al abismo" of Julian Carlos Ríos Martín and Pedro José Cabrera Cabrera, that having done a study talks about this problem in spanish jails. It is incredible that this really happens in modern times. They talk about the hard conditions of the "first grade prisoners", those that are considered criminals of  great danger, they live in closed modules or special deparments, are those who are isolated almost completely from society and from the rest of the prisoners, and they only have the right of two oral communications per week in the prison's locutory. This study denounced that the 60 per cent of this modules or closed jails does not have heating, the 70 per cent of the prisoners say that have suffered some kind of bad treats, they suffer continous recounts, also in the middle of the night, they do not have the right of having clothes, they have to ask for it to the jailers and in the most of the cases this clothes does not appear until two or three days have passed, they also denounced the arbitrary and humiliating friskings naked they have to pass. In some cases a problem between a prisoner and a jailer can end in a great beating to this person from a group of jailers. So, now I put into question, if this are the situation of this kind of prisoners, is really that a way of reeducate them? I think not. From my point of view, if you are treated with violence, you will treat with violence, so I consider that treat counterproductive to the possibilies of learning of the prisoners. In the other hand, there are people who does not apply the word "mercy" for this kind of danger persons, they only want them to rot and languish in jail. I understand this point of view. If someone has killed a closed person to you , you need to feel revenge to that person, you experience hatred to he or her. But this opens the debate of , what happens if you are wrong? What happens if the police have arrested the mistaken person?. So, it is important, at least to have humanity, to maintain the rights of the people. 



To sum up this controversial topic, from my point of view, the prison system does not work completely. It is important to take into account the type of crime someone has done, the type of punishment he will need, and what grade should the tribunal atribute to him or her. But it is important to determine if a prison is only a system of punishment or if it is a place of reeducation. Do we have to believe in this concept? Or we only have to believe in the exemplary punishment? We have seen that the police brutality really happens, that it is counterproductive to a person who has experienced violence probably since his or her childhood; that we should think about other things of punishment and, going to the roots, educate society since a child ,in order not to saturate the system prison; also the prison must be not only a place in which prisoners serve a sentence but  also, learns how not to reoffend in their sins, and a place in which you have to learn how to use effectively a second chance.

 







































