

      Sexual offences are those crimes which almost every person would agree to be of the worst kind of crime. We can go beyond, and say that those commited against children are far more worse. First of all, we have to stablish what does sexual offence mean and what types of it can exist. Sexual offence can be defined as <Q> <R>. Following the Sexual Offences Act of 2003 there are 18 types of sexual offences, some of them are: 1.Rape, in which a person <Q>; 2. Assault, which can be: by penetration (a person <Q> without consent) and sexual assault (a person <Q>); 3.Causing sexual activity without consent; 4. Rape and other offences against children under 13; 5. Child sex offences, which include for example: <Q>; 6. Offences against persons with a mental disorder impeding choice; 7. Indecent photographs of children; 8.Others such as: Exposure (a person <Q>), Voyeurism ("<Q> and without the other person's consent), Intercourse with an animal, Sexual penetration of a corpse, Sexual activity in a public lavatory,...and many more (Sexual Offences Act 2003, 2007). In this essay, I will expose different points of view about the possible punishments and/or remedies that can be applied to sexual offenders and remedies to avoid possible assaults.





      Depending on the country, sexual offences punishments vary in many ways. In U.S.A. for example, there are some web pages in which are published photos of sexual offenders. One of them is called "Family watchdog" in which you can introduce your personal direction and see whether the police have a file on sexual offenders in your area. In this web page, you can also tell your experiences concerning this issue, if you have been raped for example. This is what a raped girl says there about this web page: <Q> <R>. In a Detroit News homepage's article by  Kim Kozlowski we can find this <Q> <R>. This article also says that this online sex offender registry is <Q> <R>, because everybody with access to internet would be aware of a large group of people considered threatening to society. Well, this can be seen from two sides, one is the side of victims, almost every victim would agree with this idea of publishing sexual offender's photos in a place (internet, in this case) because if they have criminal records and are not arrested yet, to know their faces is really a way of being aware of these individuals. But if we think about the people posted, it is probably that a number of them were innocent, or not so threatening to society, or furthermore, mentally unbalanced. This article adds: <Q> <R>. It is true that to show a true sexual offender's face in the internet is in a way a possible punishment, in the sense that it is a deterrent measure to the offencer because he or she would be recognized as one for a long period. But if the person has already expired his sentence or he is serving his sentence, this would be an extra punishment for him/her. 



      What psychiatrists suggest  about the possible punishments or -better named- remedies for these people can be: to take part into programs of sexual education and rehabilitation inside prisons. The Asociation of  Argentinian Psychiatrists suggests that : <Q> <R>. This asociation also suggests the creation of comunitary support groups and use of pharmacs if it is necessary. It seems that since these treatments must be done in prison, we are letting these kind of individuals to the responsibility of the prison system, and we have to trust in this system. Other people would argue that the sexual offenders must be put in jail for life, and be isolated from the rest of prisoners, because, in the case of pederasts for example, they are very vulnerable to been raped by other prisoners and this would not help them, this only would  cause more anger in them.




        Another remedy for sexual offenders is called "chemical castration". Castration is defined in Wikipedia right this: "<Q> <R> . Many people consider this way to be the perfect punishment for sexual offenders. Some of these aggressors in fact, have the possibility of chossing this option, after having been thinking for a long time. But it can be argued in the sense that , well, if a person who commits a crime with his sexual organs, a person who kills someone with his hands, do we have to cut his/her hands? Well, it is true that if the aggressor does not have sexual impulses, he will not commit again a sexual offence. In the other hand , The American Civil Liberties Union <Q> <R>; it seems reasonable to argue that this is a rather medieval technique, a very strong measure, you can not impose someone to loose his possiblity of reproduction, because it would be an antinatural law, a law that goes against some basic principles of life. But it is important to take into account the fact that some of them can choose this option and it will not be imposed if the prisoner does not agree, as it is said in an article called "Chemical castration for paedophiles approved" : <Q> <R>. Of course, this is the law approved in California, but the laws concerning to that issue varies from one country to another. So it appears to be, that it is a very hard punishment if it is imposed -as this extract says, for repeat offenders-, but if it is a choice, it seems to be more reasonable.


       It is very common that the victims do not report the assaults, above all in cases of rape or sexual abuse. As we can find in Editorial Guidelines In Full of BBC <Q> <R>. Although, many victims find themeselves unable to go to the police with fear of being followed or witnessed by their agressors, or in case the agressor is arrested and not found guilty and he was free again. In a report of a Toronto's web page, we can find these two other reasons: <Q> <R>. It appears to be very reasonable that a woman or a raped man -because although it is strange, it happens to men also- does not go to the police at the first moment, first of all they want to find help in their relatives or friends, and at the very end of the assault they are in a shock, which in the mayority of the cases almost does not allow them to say nothing, or nothing coherent, and it lasts at least for some days, or even months. But it necessary to go to the police and report the agression, if not the victim, at least a relative, a friend or a witness. This would be the first step to catch the offenders. 
      It is important also to talk about the remedies or measures that should be taken in order to avoid some of these types of sexual offences I have mentioned in the introduction of this essay. For example, as in a webpage of Toronto we can read: in the case of assault by a stranger: <Q> <R> ; in the case of acquaintance/date rape: <Q> <R>. This web page also suggests men and women to take classes of personal deffense, or <Q> <R>. Well, all these suggestions seem to be very useful if you are young, have enough free time..., but for example in the case of taking personal deffense classes, there may be many people with no free time or money enough to take these classes. In the case of avoid to trust in certain kind of men, it is really difficult to know if a man you have already known is a prototype of a sexual offender, and many times it appears to be someone who knows the victim who makes the offence. Moreover, it appears to be true that you can not go always prejudging the people you meet because you may make a mistake.


      To sum up, we have seen that a sexual offence can be of many types, and depending on each type, the punishment for the offenders must be in a way or in another, some of the punishments are for example to register for some period of time their names and faces in a webpage, which also can give a sense of security for citizents, but at the same time have bad consecuences for rehabilited offenders; another possible punishment or remedy for the aggressors is to take part in rehabilitation programs of sexual education and so on, or another choice they can have is to be chemically castrated. In the side of the victims we have seen that in order to avoid a possible attack of them, people have to use common sense and be cautious in some special situations, and also if it is possible, report an attack or an intent as soon as possible in order to catch the offender, but it seems to be very difficult if you have already suffered such an attack.


