

             Anorexia nervosa is one the most worring eating disorders. Along with binge eating disorder, bulimia nervosa, over weight and obesity, it can unhappily result in death. Anorexia nervosa is defined as <Q> <R>.  It is more common between teenagers and adults, but also it can be developed in children since 8-9 years old. The life of people affected by it are dominated by their conception of beauty, and stressed with food and eating. There are two types of anorexia: one is <Q> <R>. The other one is the <Q> <R>. Both types are really worriying because in most cases, people affected do their best to hide their situation, and it is very difficult to discover it. In this essay, I will analyse different causes that triggers off anorexia and deal with possible measures to prevent it.

       



         Historically, anorexia was thought to be produced by the environment, the media, or the mental stress of the person. However they are not the only factors which triggers off the illness. Nowadays, there are beginning to be taken into account biological factors as possible causes for anorexia. In this way, <Q> <R>. Also <Q> <R>. These biological and genetic causes seem to be very worrying because, if an illness is genetic, you are predisposed to suffer it, and you can not avoid it, unless you were genetically manipulated. However, the fact is that some illnesses, genetically predisposed, do not happen, because they need some environmental influences to make it emerge that do not take place in the life of a person. This happens for example with anorexia. So the biological factors can not be considered as the only thing which triggers off the illness, because it appears to be true that a person  wihout being genetically predisposed, can also develop anorexia, above all, in cases where the environment and the personal character plays a strong role.

      



            
            Other important causes are those concerning the psychology of the person. It is important to know that anorexia is not a physical illnes, but a neurosis which produce eating disorders as the most obvious manifestation, and therefore, physical problems. Anorexia can emerge in cases where there is an excessive concern of the body and the image, and where there are these tendences: <Q> <R>. As the psychologist Lucia Robledo says <Q> <R>. These are some psychological triggering factors, that possibly can make a person to develop the illness. They appear to be very concrete and usefull to find out a case of anorexia. However, they must not be taken alone, that is, we have to take into account many other things, such as his/her conception of beauty, his/her environment, her/his relation with food, etc. If we face a person with most of these characteristics, he or she is not necesarilly anorexic, or predisposed to develop the illness. These characteristics can create other pathologies that must be taken into account, such as isolation, anxiety disorders, obsesive-compulsive dissorders...,but they do not imply an eating disorder. 



        
              Other causes are those we can relate to the environment of the person. These causes can be related to: the media, the culture, family, friends, academic pressure, life changes, stressful events, eat alone, and many more.  One of the most likely cause can be the media. We are constantly bombarded with the image of the "perfect woman" which use to be extremelly thin for some people. <Q> <R>. We can see the pressure of being thin for example in catwalks, or TV programms as "Super modelo", where it is promoted a beauty based on the appearance of the body. In addition, <Q> <R>. Even at school, fat children are sometimes isolated only for being fat. In a study done in Navarra, it was discovered that <Q>. These causes seem to be the more likely to trigger off a neurosis, in this case, anorexia. However, it happens the same as with the psychological factors. It depends on the personality of the person to fall into this illness. Also it depends on the family or friends. In the case of listening to the radio, it also depends on what type of radio programms the person listens to, and so on.



         

            Although there are cases where the illness is genetically predisposed, there can be taken some measures to try to prevent anorexia nervosa. We can think about genetic manipulation when anorexia is more likely to happen due to biological reasons or inheritance, or on the other hand, the sumministration of any kind of drug to contrarest the high levels of certain hormones anorexics have. Concerning the psychological factors that helps the developmnent of the illness, it seems to be more difficult to detect the possiblity of appearance of anorexia, but parents, should be aware of the attitude of their children, above all when they are teens, because it is a difficult age, full of changes. The environment is more likeley to affect a person seriously concerning this illness. <Q> <R>. Some measures can be to remove these TV programms or magazines in which the body is overvalued and women is devalued when her body measures are not the canonical for models. It would not be just  to remove these programms, because there are people who earn their money with them, and other people who enjoy these programms or magazines. It would be more correct to advertise people of  the programme's topic, choose a better timetable, or moreover, the intervention of parents, who should take more part in what their teens do in their free time. Also, it seems reasonable the education at schools, and at home when it is possible, about how to scape from stereotyped conceptions about beauty, and how to avoid an excessive worrying about perfection. 

                 

 

       To sum up, we have seen that the causes that triggers off anorexia nervosa, along with other eating disorders, are a combination between biological and genetical causes, the psychology and the personality of the person, and the environment, in which there can be included the media, the family, school, friends, etc.  In any case we should consider them alone, because one can "awake"another, one can interact with the other, and so on. As I said in the introduction, these mentally unwell people try to hide the illness, so it is important to take into account all these causes when trying to discover a case of anorexia in a person. Also, parents must involve themeselves more in teenager's free time, as a way of preventing a possible eating disorder. 




































