The  use of weapons has been a constant through  human history and violence seems to be an inherent characteristic of man. Unfortunately, there has been a permanent developement in the destructive power of arms and their technology. The United States have a long tradition in the use of guns since their origin, nowadays the debate about gun control and firearms rights is still open. In this essay I want to express my opinion in favour of gun control because I believe it could reduce the number of homicides, accidental deaths and suicides.

I think that one cause of gun violence in the United States comes from the easiness of acquiring firearms. An individual of eighteen years of age or older may buy a rifle or shotgun from a federally licensed dealer in any state. According to Gary Kleck and Marc Gertz's study "Armed Resistance to Crime" there are about 47.600.000 households with a gun while the number of adults owning a gun in the United States rises to 59.100.000 . Another problem is that there is no national gun register in the U.S.A. and that makes impossible to know exactly how many guns are in circulation or who has them, although the F.B.I. estimates there are more than 200 million guns in civilian hands.

From my point of view this huge number of firearms without control represents a social danger for different reasons:
- Children and teenagers can easily get access to guns if owning firearms is something common in american households.
- Handguns can be in the hands of criminals or mentally-ill individuals if there is no strict gun register nor background information of the owners.
- Arguments in an armed community will sometimes be resolved with an exchange of shots instead of dialogue.

The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution makes reference to the possesion of guns <Q>. On the one hand, those in favour of gun rights see the Second Amendment as a guarantee of the individual right to bear arms without intervention or restriction by the state. On the other hand, gun control supporters argue that the word "people" doesn't refer to individual gun ownership but to the State National Guard Units.

In my opinion owning a gun gives a fake feeling of power and security to the owner. I believe fear is the reason why most people get armed. It appears to be a vicious circle in which individuals buy guns for fear of those who are already armed. 
One fundamental point is that after motor vehicle deaths, firearms are the second leading cause of death among all teenagers in the United States. In 2003, 102 children and teens aged 17 years of age or younger were killed by firearms unintentionally. In the same year, the number of firearm suicides of youth reached 377 and an additional 805 youth were killed in firearm homicides.

My opinion in favour of gun control is supported by statistics related to suicides commited by children and youth in the District of Columbia. Strict gun laws in this District, banning the sale and possession of handguns and assault weapons, save lives by keeping guns out of homes. These statistics from the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control show that for the years 2000 through 2002, no child sixteen years of age or younger in the District of Columbia commited firearm suicide. By contrast, states with weaker gun laws as Alaska or Montana far exceeded the national average for this age group of 0,45 per 100.000 . I think it is a clear example of how laws that keep guns out of households help to prevent youth suicide.

It is also important the fact that the majority of homicides are the result of arguments between people who know each other rather than criminal activity. As Dr. Arthur Kellermann points out,  <Q> <R>. He also states that <R> for they will affect children who have witnessed incidents of domestic violence involving the threat or use of firearms. These witnesses of gun violence could be traumatized for the rest of their lives. The harms are not only physical but psychological.

On the other hand, some people think that bearing arms would prevent crime. That's the case of Alan Gottlieb, founder of the Second Amendment Foundation, that supports the use of arms even after a tragedy like the recent Virginia Tech Massacre, where Seung-Hui Cho a 23 years old student killed 32 people and wounded 25 others before killing himself, making it the deadliest school shooting in U.S. history.
Gottlieb affirms <R>. From my point of view the problem was that Cho, a mentally ill individual, was able to buy two semi-automatic guns without any trouble. This speaks of the extreme accesibility of guns and the shelter the second amendment procures to violent people. Moreover, if as Gottlieb defends students and teachers were able to carry guns in a high school, the only one consequence could be an increase of possibilities of something similar happening again.

Owning a gun conveys an enormous responsibilty and its use should be left to those in charge of the security of a community. That is the security corps and the police. In an armed society the risk of resolving disputes with lethal violence is higher. It also gives possibilities of "making" justice by your own. And even those responsible of the security should be extremely cautious in the use of these deadly weapons. They should be conscious of their mission in society, that is primarily to prevent rather than using excessive force, and be completeley sure of how and when they must intervene.

Governments should agree on a series of efficient principles to prevent handguns proliferation and their inappropriate use. It is very difficult to  defend the legality of the use of guns seeing the disasters it causes. I think that in the case of the United States, there is a long affection for guns since their origins to present days. This tradition comes in part from the nation's frontier history where guns were intrinsic to America's expansion. Settlers used guns to protect themselves from Indians, animals and foreign armies. Also the role of hunting in the nation's early years gave importance to the use of firearms. Nowadays this affection for guns is still present in a big part of american society where Southern states and Western states are mostly pro-gun.

I feel that violence engenders more violence even if it is in self defense. We are accustomed to it because it is somehing we see everyday on newspapers, on television and in a great number of movies. I think we should make a serious reflection about the way it affects our sensitivity because we are under the risk of becoming indifferent to violence and bloodshed. I strongly believe that violence is absolutely fruitless, and that  the real strength to solve confrontations is in our mutual understanding by means of dialogue. To conclude, I have tried to show the dangers of guns in american society from different angles, and the need of a tough regulation of firearms including a national gun register and background information about gun owners to reduce the number of suicides, homicides and accidental deaths caused by their use. 
  


 

 
