
      Love without sex or sex without love is a very usual topic. However, this reflection confronts opposites ways of thinking. Anyone of the options is interesting whenever it is chosen freely. According to a survey made in 2005 by the Centro de Investigaciones Sociológicas (CIS) over 76 per cent of the Spaniards understand a loving relation like that in which a strong affection shares and in that sexual relations stay; another 35 per cent concibe it like a stable relation in which loving feelings share but that does not include sex obligatorily; as opposed to it only a 10 per cent of the population  a sporadic relation between two people who show a physical attraction and that ends at sexual relation, is a loving relation. In this essay, I am going to discuss the different perspectives concerning this issue.
      Although the reality of sex without love has existed during many centuries of history, in the last decades this practice every time is more habitual. One possible example could be marriages of convenience, something very current between the nobility in last centuries. In these marriages the parents of the contracting parties agreed the conditions and in the majority of the cases the fiancés not even met the other person, so at the beginning of the relationship there was no love, but there was sex. Nowadays, sexual contacts without loving feelings have one objective: to experience that sex offers without any type of affecting responsibilities. For the great majority of the sexologist: <Q> <R>. One danger that involves this kind of relations is the possibility of contracting any sexually transmitted infection, and the most alarming one, the AIDs.  For that reason the use of contraceptives of barrier can be the most suitable option.
      
      The situation of couples in love that do not practice sex is also habitual;  are couples that share feelings and affection but that do not find in sex a priority. The main reasons alluded by people who show preference for this alternative are: the desire to maintain the virginity until the marriage by religious beliefs and, on the other hand, the necessity to feel safe in the relation and to surpass the fear to a possible deceit. Nevertheless, the most remarkable trouble that this option presents / displays occurs when one of the members in the couple does not share it. In these cases, the member that does not conform to the decision can get frustrated or even rejected.  For some sectors of society sex without love is inconceivable. The most representative example of this position is the Church that considers that sex only must be destined to the reproduction, if it is produced only in order to get pleasure is considered a dirty and sinful act.
      
      On the contrary, it could be argued that sex is a human necessity like eating or drinking and <Q> said the sexologist Pepper Schwartz <R>. Moreover, people without couple also have the right of having sex, and that is why prostitutes exists; even someone with engaged to other person could feel the necessity or the desire to prove how sex without love is. For the sexologist Ian Kerner <Q> <R>.
      But for most people the ideal is to combine love with sex. Couples that choose this possibility demonstrate a series of affection and mutual feelings; at the same time,  sex also is an important part in the relation as a way of demonstrating the feelings to the other person. Nevertheless it is true that if in a certain moment two people are physically attracted they can have sex without any compromise.
      To sum up, sex is an important part in human life, not only for reproductive questions but also as a way to demonstrate feelings concerning a special person or simply like amusement ay a determinate moment. Anyone of these positions is been worth and they do not have to be necessarily faced, they are compatible attitudes in different stages and moment on the life.


