Is prison really effective?

      If creating the world took seven whole days, committing the first offence did not take men more than half. The first inhabitants of Eden, the first to break the law, suffered upon themselves a punishment that does not differ in essence much to that nowadays offenders are sentenced to; exclusion from their natural upbringing environment. 
      At different historical times, different punishments have been used; slavery for life, forced labour, exile to new found lands, etc., but overall, deprivation of liberty seems to be the most repeated feature among them all.  Moving on to present time, modern societies have inherited methods and, although slavery and human exploitation have been put aside in most eastern countries, prisons have become the major institutions for the appliance of punishment. But, as the Earth, to which Adam and Eve were sent to, was supposedly a place where they had the chance to redeem themselves, do prisons offer criminals the chance of overcoming their faults and learning their way back into society? 
      In this essay I aim at analysing how, despite the changing role given to prisons in modern democratic countries, the methods used for rehabilitating offenders could be improved and how, overall, society has developed a double speech attitude towards this issue. 
      
      Whether prisons are effective or not, it depends entirely on the purpose they serve. As I mentioned before, at different historical periods, society has managed the appliance of punishment differently. For example, the first documented prison dates from 365 BC; the Mamertine prison. It was a network of tunnels excavated along the main Rome's sewer. Although Roman law did not recognised imprisonment as punishment, this prison served for keeping foreign commanders who, having been defeated in the battle field, were to be executed publicly. 
      By the description of the place, it can be said that there was not much of an intention of rehabilitating prisoners. The Mamertine prison served as an extension of the sewer; so that, in a sense, the Roman Society could flush its offenders away. 
      During the Middle Ages, offences and wrongdoings were commonly handled privately based on the Law of retaliation - lex taliones; "eye for eye" -  which often imply physical torture and public shamelessness. Also religious authorities used physical torture methods for purging guilt and sin. 
       It was in England and Scotland where, in the 15th Century, the first large prisons appear. At that time, one of the most common reasons for imprisonment was debt; so prisons were filled with people who could not afford payment. Clothing or feeding inmates humanly were understood as wasteful by authorities, since inmates would either die by natural causes or be executed. In other words, appalling conditions were a complementary part of the punishment. 
      John Howard -  in 1779 -  pushed forward the Penitentiary Act, by which conditions in prisons were changed. It can be said that Howard was the first modern politician to care for the functioning of prisons and for the treatment inmates received. Furthermore, Howard's works along with the Recognition of Human Rights have influenced deeper thorough changes regarding punishment and prisons. 
      Today's society lays on the basic principle of working members, citizens, who, by their working towards a common aim, a functioning society, have full rights as long as they respect their obligations, law, etc.. From this basic statement, it can be supposed that offenders do not quit being citizens just by their offending, but have their "citizenship" suspended temporarily. Society, in its turn, through the institutions created for that respect  -  prisons - , take on the job of dealing with inmates and their needs in overcoming their faults. Consequently, time spent in prison can not mean result in total extirpation from society. Seclusion is as important for keeping safeness in society as it is for ensuring amendments in offender's behaviour. In my personal opinion, offenders are in debt with society as much as society is proportionally in debt with those offenders who had not had real chances for dribbling crime on their way.  It would be a great mistake to judge crime commonly as a choice which, in its turns, denies future fitting into society.
      At this point I would like to provide with precise samples on how different countries deal with their prisons.
      At <R> the Scottish Prison Service presents itself and provides a list of aims: <Q>
      From my point of view, the legend above is an illustrative example of the double speech attitude I had referred to previously. The fact that they link the ideas of <R> indicates that they present the institution  - the SPS -  as a managerial group of experts that will provide with direct "tangible" results to society, whilst they prove themselves competent enough for the job. The SPS' results can be checked at the web page of the Statistical Bulleting published by the Scottish Executive National Statistics Publication in 2003. The graphic below illustrates the growth of inmates in Scotland from the 1900s to the year 2000.  <T>
      It is worth highlighting that, although the number of male offenders has increased in the ten year period 1994-2003, its growth can not be compared to the one experienced with female prison population, which has increased four times over. Re-offending has also increased along the years, by at least 5 present. With these numbers it seems that the SPS has not been able to accomplish its first aim; as it could be expected by way of presentation.<Q>
      To that purpose, the SPS has pushed into action a series of programs such as: <Q>, for tackling the problem of the spread of AIDS. This program has obtained positive results in reducing the number of new infections in Scottish prisons; although it came too late since it started to operate in the year 2005. The curious aspect of this program, adopted now by many eastern countries, is that it implies prisons' inability of keeping drugs abused off their walls; which in my opinion is a total paradox. 
      Although most prisons organize within their routine activities, such as: employment - kitchen work, laundry, tailorshop, bakery, etc - , sports, educational programs  - in Spain one of the most popular university studies among inmates is Legal Studies - , etc.; most of these activities seem to fill in the gap of spare time inmates face. In the United States only convicts with no blood crimes are allowed to take on this type of activities; which are considered as a privilege. The fact is that, in general, governments lack serious programs for those who are about to leave jail and face an uncertain future. 
      Alternatively, there are many ONGs providing for inmates with their own activities and programs. These ONGs take a wider approach to inmates since they understand that offenders need taking a whole new turn in their lives, frequently, without counting on any family support or previous structure. Thus they work on the principles of community, train ex convicts in different professional jobs and provide with professional counselling.  
      The peculiarity of many of these ONGs is that they are very often religious charities. This circumstance implies in evangelical attitudes towards ex convicts. I personally understand that, although is vital to posses some personal understanding on common ethics in order to guard limits in society, I do not think that turning offenders into believers will unable them to develop enough personal techniques to face a new life. 
      Far from being a recurrent subject for entertaining casual lift companions; this is a subject that demands deep appraising; it requires willingness to put on someone else's shoes. The issue of how offenders can be reinserted into society has been talked about extensively, but it should be pointed out that, commonly, when debating about the issue, different related subjects are mingled, as if they were, all in all, a single subject. That is, people tent to put on the same basket things like judge sentences, ambiguousness in laws, disbelief in the rehabilitation of serious offenders, etc.  The relation among them are clear, but, they can not be tangled into a bunch since they all are in themselves different aspects of a higher paradigm; human justice. 
      
      
      
      
      
       


	

