
      Modern times have brought novelties to citizens of westerns countries. Probably one of the most celebrated of these novelties is that citizens, regardless of their social status, have gained voice. Thus, some groups, considered minorities, are making themselves much more present by using their right to manifest themselves publicly. If at the beginning of the nineteenth century, feminist groups were at the centre of public attention, now it could be said that that place has been taken by gays and lesbians, due to the enormous relevance they have acquire throughout Europe and America. Along with gays and lesbians, transsexuals claim for rights. Some of these rights are common; others are specific for the subgroup. Among their specific requests, transsexuals claim the right to have their names changed in ID cards and passports, social aid to afford the cost of reassigning surgeries and, most importantly, the chance to become full participant citizens; with their rights recognized and their obligations demanded. Whether transsexuals gain or not specific rights worldwide might depend on society's accepting and updating on this human group that, far from being voiceless, seems to be speaking out louder than ever. 
      This essay aims at defending that transsexuals must be treated as respectful members of society. 
      It seems that the different terms with which transsexuals have been named colloquially would have confused many people. There are some doubts regarding whether the terms transsexual and gay are mere synonyms and also there seems to be some misunderstandings regarding the terms transsexual and transvestite. According to Medterms, the definition for the term gay is: <Q> <R>.
The very same dictionary provides with the following definition for transsexual: <Q> <R>. Consequently there is need for finding out what transsexualism is. And so, at the same dictionary the definition given is: <Q> <R>. And to finish with definitions, the one corresponding to the term transvestite, extracted from the same dictionary: <Q> <R>.
      These definitions should solve doubts. Nevertheless it ought to be point out the fact that achieving transsexualism is not a mere decision, but a long process. The starting point of that process is feeling that there might be something wrong with one's body. Ramon Jonson, collaborator of Gaylife.About.com, describes that feeling: <Q> <R>.
      Perhaps the first problem for somebody in that situation is that his/her family does not know how to deal with it. It is understandable that that circumstance might take any parent aback. Nevertheless, if we consider that at this point most Western countries count of psychologist working in schools and also that psychological aid can be found free of charge at Public Hospitals, they should be able to count on these sources in order to overcome the first bow.
      On the other hand, having these sources does not guarantee that the professional will be suitable for the purpose of making parents and the patient aware that the physical disarrange can be sorted. It appears that there is still not full agreement within the medical community. Press for Change indicates that that is a significant problem and describes the position of the medical community in the U.K.: <Q> <R>.
      Another of the reasons that might affect parents when dealing with the "trans-circumstance" is that nowadays there are not many examples of transsexuals who might serve as positive role models. And so, parents sometimes aim at not facing the problem, which is very likely to lead their children to frustration and despair. That would explain partly why the rate of suicide among transsexuals who did not count with the support of their families is so high. If they can not count with their families' support from the first stages, it would be very difficult to build the strength they will need in order to face future problems. This might be the beginning of the low self-confidence from which many transsexuals suffer, which partly would explain why they tend to self-seclude from society.
      On the other hand there are those who understand that transsexuals are not normal individuals, and so they apply the principle of social exclusion against them. Furthermore, they consider transsexualism as an aberration and turn their backs on the issue. The Narth  - The National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality- published an article by Paul McHugh in which he indicates: <Q> <R>. This is a very explicit attack to transsexuals and it should be highlighted the fact that some collaborators to this association, including the person who signs the affirmation above-mentioned, are professionals of medicine. 
       The idea of transsexuals as mentally disordered people is something that could be linked to the idea of considering homosexuality as an illness. In fact, the very same association that published the formerly mentioned theory about sex-change surgery, offer aid to parents in order to "cure" their children from homosexuality. In this sense, it could be said that the strongest barrier transsexuals have to overcome in order to gain social respect is ignorance. The war against ignorance is not exclusive to transsexuals. There are many other collectives who do suffer from it. In fact, ignorance is a too heavy factor in any modern society which could hardly help anybody. 
       Some people do not consider transsexuals as abhorrent but they fail to consider them as common citizens. That might be so because many transsexuals work as prostitutes and they are not seen working in other areas. It would be very difficult to state whether transsexuals become prostitutes because they find no other occupation or if they embrace prostitution because they find in it the perfect soil for achieving their aim. At this point it should be taken into consideration that society often judges too quickly and also that there is far too much hypocrisy surrounding prostitution. 
      
      In conclusion, it could be said that transsexuals are surrounded by ignorance and that the image society has of them is not positive at all. Against those circumstances, education should be the response against old concepts. Education and respect to all should be a principle applied by institutions and political spheres. But perhaps, before any institution takes cards into the issue, transsexuals should work on their own mentality. It could be said that, as much as women did not gained social recognition automatically from the first laws that were approved, but had to oversee their own mentality, transsexuals should do the same.  In that way they would have to work on their own concept and build an image that could reflect and show a complete different model. 
      Regarding what was mentioned about institutions, there is an European law approved in 1976 by which it is considered illegal to discriminate anybody who has undergone or thinks about undertaking reassigning surgery. In that sense, counting on that law, it could be said that making those words come out of paper is a task that will be achieved just by educating people and shortening distance with this social group. 
      
      




