

	Religion is man's longest companion in history, just comparable to man's natural fear of death. There are no many examples of cultures that have left a non-religious legate. Consequently, it seems natural in man to look for relief in religion. However, present times do bring new approaches to religion due partly to the increase of exchange among different cultures. Thus, many start questioning the creed they have inherited from their educators. Among these new approaches, the concept of reincarnation, imported into Western cultures from the East, is becoming very popular as it allows new explanations to old questions. Reincarnation has brought the debate about religion into a new situation. Now the community of believers see how independent individuals wake to their own personal view of life and death. 
      In this essay I aim at encouraging readers to leave old dogmas behind in finding their own answer to the question raised by reincarnation. In doing so, I will provide with an objective analyses extracted from supporters and critics, which I will supplement by giving my personal view.
      Reincarnation is a concept not taken exclusively by those who profess Eastern religions, esoteric ritual performers or people of eccentric manners. As Ernest Varela  - author of different studies- puts it:<Q> <R>
      Hell, and the concept represented by it, is a common feature in main monotheistic religions. Catholicism created the idea of hell from the word "Gehenna"- which in the words of Fr. William Saunders: <Q> <R>
      Further on, Fr. Saunders explains what the purpose of hell is: <Q> <R>
      Although the above comment of a Catholic father does not get into the issue of reincarnation, it does nevertheless set main differences regarding the two concepts or views on religion. Based on that comparison, it could be said that reincarnation can somehow be contemplated on its own, whereas salvation in the monotheistic Catholic point of view is a mere part of the whole creed. In other words, anybody might walk on alone towards his or her own personal growth, whilst no Catholic can separate from the main body of the community, constituted by the Catholic Church and its hierarchy plus the mass of believers; the later frequently described as sheep guided by the shepherd, (Jesus Christ or a priest in his absence).  
      Based on the circumstance commented above, it could be said that reincarnation, as a concept upon which a personal doctrine or moralistic conduct might be built, is much freer than Catholicism. Reincarnation would appeal to the individualistic view of life by developing one's own conscience; the individual versus the community. On the other hand, form the Catholic point of view, reincarnation is described as convenient rather than free-maker because it does not demand personal commitment neither does it set a common set of rules to follow. In other words, the community constituted by Catholics, the sheep along with their shepherd, would guarantee the common well being of its members and also, the common respect to the commitments, which should rule every member's behaviour.  
      Another of the circumstances implied in the comparison set formerly between both views is salvation. To that regard, Catholicism would understand life as a path to either eternal happiness in heaven or eternal punishment in hell. Consequently, it could be said that man is not free to live in this world since his coming into it is marked by the capital sin committed by Adam and Eve. So material life is not something to take pleasure from, it can not be enjoyed and it is a test to undergo on one's way to the promised paradise. 
      Questioning that belief, Nietzsche's famous words  - taken form the dialogue among the madman and his listeners- : <Q> <R>.
      Nietzsche did not mean to gain enemies but to break through man's old religious handicap: the impossibility of living his present life in happiness. Man would have to wait till judgment day to hear god's sentence. The concept of reincarnation would set itself besides Nietzsche's position in that sense, as it implies that life in the material world would direct man to overcoming his faults and karma. The world would nevertheless be something temporal, but the relation with it would allow man to enjoy it by using it in order to learn how to become better and liberated from faults. 
      Catholicism has been the strongest supporter of the theory of the world as the sad valley. In that sense, it could be said that it is not appealing to see the present life in earth as a punishment or a test to undergo in order to aspire to the real paradise. After all, if anybody can choose from a wide range of religions, why choosing a doctrine that denies life in earth as something pleasurable? 
      Getting back to the idea of hell the next question might come up when thinking about that place of punishment; who would go to hell in the Church's opinion? Answering that question James Akin says: <Q> <R>.
      This idea, apart from being far too personal, would imply that Jesus Christ  - since he knew his fate, and the way in which it would come through- would have chosen Judas as his traitor, so in a way, he would have set Judas' fate. Consequently, the Christian liberator would also be a tyrant. 
      Furthermore, it could be said that the Catholic Church, in terms of man's nature and social importance is very contradictory and for some hypocrite. Although Catholicism states that every human being is as important in the eyes of god as any other, reality states something very different. Even within the Church itself, since hierarchy does not precisely represent equality among men, lesser equality between man and woman. 
      On the other hand, the concept of reincarnation does not fall into hypocritical theses since it does recognize that men are different form one another. Besides, it would provide with explanations as why circumstances of birth, aptitude, etc are so different from some to others. To that respect, Varelas  - author quoted earlier- adds:<Q> <R>.
      This interpretation could be taken as much more feasible than the one maintained by the Catholic Church. So by this idea, man would have to face whatever circumstances met as the starting point from which he or she would have to improve faults  -  karma- committed in former lives. 
      Despite the fact that this explanation provided by supporters of reincarnation may seem very reasonable, it nevertheless brings another question associated; which is how to interpret what one has to go through. In other words what is owned by the individual  - caused to actions preformed in former lives- and what is new, so to say, belonging to the present life. The fact is that, although reincarnation might bring along logic upon which things might be explained and understood, very frequently it comes wrapped up in folklore. Supporters of reincarnation are numerous and among them there can be found some celebrities. Shirley Maclaine is one of them. She has written a number of books on the topic. On one of them she links the ideas of reincarnation and the Catholic Church when she says: <Q> <R>.
      To that, Mr Robert H. Brom, bishop of San Diego, answers: <Q> <R>.
      So far, as it seems, for every argument supporting reincarnation and against Catholicism, we find several aspects that might support Catholicism over reincarnation. Overall, in my personal view, the importance of debating about reincarnation is that it makes us questioning the heritance we have received from our ancestors. By that, I mean that due to the fact that most of us have been educated into Catholicism not as something chosen by our fathers or tutors, but as something taken literally, frequently forced by the church  - not precisely loving shepherds, but tyrants- , I find it very hard to embrace a religion that set under dogmas inexplicable things that direct believers nowhere, but to ignorance. Thus, Catholicism and its moral have become a tradition and an important characteristic of our culture, far too strong to break free from despite that it has brought much more suffering and blindness than knowledge and respect among men. We all know that in order to manage others, keeping them in the darkness of ignorance easies the tasks considerably.
      The way I see it, reincarnation breaks from the idea of a god-man, of that god we have all seen represented as an old man with long bear. The god of revenge and war in the Old Testament who becomes later in the New Testament the god made man, who redeems us by suffering a cruel death in the cross. I wonder why people still take that so literally and do not use the bible as a mere literal work, which is actually very good in the sense of creating characters and twisting their doings. 
      I strongly believe that if Jesus Christ came again on a second coming, as it is announced by the church, the very same ones that supposedly are there to preach his teachings would be the ones to crucify him again. I thing that Catholicism is a fraud from which fortunately we are separating due to the laicism we have succeeded in creating.  
      I also believe that from what we now know about the universe we inhabit, it is just unreasonable to maintain faith in the idea of a god-man. I believe that, in that sense, the idea of reincarnation is much more interesting since it appeals to the individual and not to a community. Nevertheless it is absurd to understand everything one goes through as something caused by our-selves in former lives. I mean that it is very important to look for our own answer to the question: where do we come from?  In that respect reincarnation might help. Having said that, I reckon that we should forget about reincarnation when affronting the second important question that comes right after thinking about our origin; where are we going to? This question has no easy answer, but whatever thought of as explanation it must be personal and set within the frame we find our-selves in; that is, not so much moving forwards into what kind of life will come next, as to what can be done in order to arrange our present circumstances into whatever we long for. 
      The threat of hell is one of the most sadistic ideas ever launched by the Catholic Church. I had included the opinion of James Akin to illustrate how absurd minds can become when taking on the church's side too unconditionally, instead of widening views. In order to do so, regarding the idea of hell, it is worth speculating about the possible reasons which might have made hell a common feature among different religions. If the idea of hell is as old as the idea of paradise, it must be so due to the fact that in achieving paradise man operated from his free will onwards. Now possibilities from that starting point on are far too numerous and vary not to worry religious community leaders and make them set restrictions in order to guard their leadership. In that sense, believers needed to have a threat too scary to avoid their stepping out of common conduct of behaviour. We must also consider that such conduct of behaviour would also serve as the law upon which members would be judged.  
      Although I do find reincarnation very appealing and attractive, I would not recommend anybody to take on it, at least until enough thinking has been given to one's religion. Finding a substitute does not end with one's addiction. 
      Addiction to religion and need to have some religious belief are complete different concepts. Described as such, no one would ever consider himself as addicted to religion. Nevertheless, that addiction has to do with the fact that, very frequently, professing a faith means counting on free entrance to a group. Now, in that sense, we might not have the immediate need to follow a creed, but we do feel the impulse to find personal recognition by belonging to a group. Majorities work out as synonymous to strength over minorities. Based on that, Catholics in the occidental context find it easy to judge muslins as extremist when judging their actions, although they might not be able to justify the Vatican's immense fortune, its hypocritical role played regarding poverty, AIDS, etc. 
      Nowadays religion might be chosen from a menu. At many different parks, different groups preach daily their message, so that, in a way, anybody might choose from the best preacher or the most appealing orator whilst enjoying a drink comfortably sat on a bench. Nevertheless, I understand that in finding real personal religious beliefs one must travel inwards and lose sight of majorities and groups, so that whatever found in the inside can be taken outwards via one's actions.  I do believe in reincarnation, but much earlier than that, I found that I have no reason to belong to a religious group, and so, once I found that out, I quit Catholicism altogether. 
      Instead of recommending reincarnation as a very feasible path through which one might find different explanations as to straighten one's present life, I would recommend, especially to those that profess Catholicism as the religion inherited from their parents, to ponder over why they still belong to such religion. If after enough pondering no reason strong enough has come up as to make them carry on being Catholics, I would strongly recommend them to apostatize and then, spend some time away from any religious group. 
      When a relationship is over, everybody is recommended to spend some time alone and to get back to hang around. I would recommend the very same thing. Step away from religion and walk right into real life; out of churches and into the world. So often than not, what we have ahead does not allow us see what we look for. Before finding a religion we need to find in our-selves need for it. The rest would come in due time. 
      
        
      



