	Since the beginning of humans' existence, we have always asked ourselves questions that seem to be no simple answers even nowadays. A couple of examples that represent all these questions could be, is there something after one's death? Or, why are we here? The necessity of the human beings to answer these primal problems led our ancestors to two main different conclusions. On one hand, there were those who said that it has to be a non-human and perfect creature that created everything from nothingness. That is God. That involved the birth of religions and their believers or theists. On the other hand, there were those who, by different ways, came to the conclusion that the faithful concept of a super-creature was impossible to digest, since no traces of any God's presence were crystal clear. That involved the birth of atheists. At the same time, somewhere in the middle of these tendencies, some people concluded that no answers will be given to those primal questions and, therefore, no time should be spent on them. That involved the birth of agnosticism. As a consequence of this differentiation, probably the most beautiful and horrendous things have been done in the name of a religion, as well as in the name of the atheists. Peace and war have been claimed; mercy and cruelty have been applied; love and hate have been felt along the time. In this essay I intend to show the reader these three tendencies in an objective way and give my opinion about them in order to answer, in my point of view, the question given as the title.
      
Firstly, theists, by definition, are those who believe in the existence of a god or gods; specifically: those who believe in the existence of a personal God viewed as the creator of man and the world (Ethical Atheist 2003). So, no matter what religion is about, every one of them has in common the assumption of the existence of creator that made everything in the universe, including us, the human beings. As the Bible says: <Q>.  Apart from the concept of "God", the most important term to understand theists' behaviour around their religions is "faith" defined in the Merriam-Webster dictionary as: <Q>. Everybody, theists and atheists, seem to agree with each other that believing in God requires the apparition of faith. Because of it, religious people justify dogmas and rules and follow them hardly questioning or rejecting anything about this religion. Because of faith, the fact of not being able to answer a question such as how to act in a specific situation won't probably cause any problem to believers because not everything must be understood. God's rules aren't humans'; there is no need to see every God's purposes.
      
      Although I actively defend, respect and admire believers, I haven't been able to feel the effects of faith throughout my life but just in one case, let's say in one very difficult moment of my life. That's why I think that faith is a very powerful device to help mankind in cases in which, literally nothing in this world, can help you recover from a special difficult situation. But, due to the natural curiosity of human beings, I think that faith blocks the development of us, the humankind. So, in my opinion, we should be believers "only in case of emergencies".
      
      Secondly, atheists, are defined here in Claudia Schaffners' terms like we can see in a very short and clear article called "Atheism or Religion: Prejudices Confronted" in which she -as a non-believer- and Christine Stanley -a believer- try to bring near the two controversial positions in a very clever and polite way: <Q>. 
      
      This ideology, in my point of view, was born as a protest to the religious one, and, as far as I think, opposite terms are wrong for the same opposite reasons, I mean, denying God's existence only by the mere fact that it cannot be demonstrated, doesn't give the reason to atheists. In other words, try to demonstrate that God exists is as impossible, for me, as trying to demonstrate that God does not exist.
      
      But, there is an ideology that appears to be somehow in the middle the two previously mentioned terms that is agnosticism. It has not a firm definition, probably because this term is newer than theist or atheist. One possible definition could the one given in the web page Religious Tolerance (<R> <Q>. It has to be said that this definition I've shown comes from a religious web page. In order to balance the term agnostic, I'll provide the essay with other possible definition taken from the web page All about philosophy <R> in its "Agnostic review": <Q>. The term is applied specifically to those who don't know for certain whether or not God exists. An agnostic is one who believes that the existence of God is unknown and most likely beyond human ability to discover.
I must say that, of the three terms -atheist, theist and agnostic- this last one is closer to me than the other since I understand that the things faith promotes will never be answered, at least, in a proper way according to my point of view. But on the other hand, as it can be seen along the history, atheists will never take away the concept of God by means of demonstration. It is often said that being agnostic is the most coward and easy way to thing about God's matters because they simply surrender about that. I don't think that being aware of what it is worthwhile to talk about and what is not is the easiest way to philosophize about God, on the contrary, I think that coming to the conclusion that agnosticism is the best option about God's existence can only be a product of one's knowledge about religions and atheists. Here is an extract of an essay called "Was Hitler an Atheist or a Theist? More Importantly, Who Cares?" <R> that shows in an ironic perspective why the author thinks that is completely useless to care about being a believer or an atheist. This quotation goes until the end of the essay: <Q>.
      
       







