      
      More than twenty-five years ago, in 1981, the Acquired immune deficiency syndrome, also known as AIDS or Aids, was officially introduced to the world. Since then, many things have been discovered about this disease that have taken more than 20 million peoples' lives, according to The New York Times in its Guide to Essential Knowledge, 2004. Scientists found the causative agent in 1983: The Human Immunodeficiency Virus or HIV. They also found the ways this virus can be infected: By the body fluids such as blood, semen, vaginal fluid. Also were found out the diagnosis of most of the symptoms of AIDS that allow the infected to face this illness with a better perspective. Besides, so many medical advances have been developed in order to create new drugs to retard or soften the HIV evolution process. However, even nowadays, this disease has not a cure yet. That is the reason for which is possible to argue that so many other factors would be very useful to reduce AIDS eventually that are not being applied effectively at present days. Scientific community would agree that the three most important factors to alleviate AIDS or even to stop it would be: Information, prevention and investigation. In this essay I am going to expound these three main factors with different points of view in order to make clearer the weaker and the stronger points of the assumption or assimilation of people about AIDS.
      
      
      The first factor to be mentioned is information. As I said at the beginning of the essay, so many things have been already discovered about AIDS such as medicines that retard the evolution of this disease, or actions that avoid considerably the spread of it, for instance, trying not to touch infected fluids without protection or not sharing needles in the case of drug addicts or using contraceptive methods in sexual relationships. In addition, having good information about AIDS, as suggested in www.avert.org (2007), see the table, can make people distinguish between the risk exposures and  the save ones. This, above of the mere fact of prevention, seems to be a good way to permit healthy people to deal directly with infected ones making their lives much easier and more natural. <T>
      
      Some frequent misconceptions about AIDS are shown in an extract taken from the Wikipedia <R> <Q>. The weak point of informing people about this matter, as well as other subjects, is that it is apparently true that information is spread irregularly among the countries. For example, in third world countries, this information comes from several ONG's that cannot cover widely its range of action almost exclusively. That seems to be one of the greatest factors for which the AIDS world wide distribution concentrates the infected areas in sub-Saharan Africa, part of Asia, South America and Russia, as this map taken from the Wikipedia <R> shows: <M>.
	About information, it is reasonable to argue that the ONG's should multiply their efforts to reach the whole world population in order to get every human being well aware of the consequences of putting themselves at risk in a permanent exposure to AIDS.
	Secondly, there is a very important factor that is an immediate consequence of information: prevention. Once a country  - or a region, or whatever it is on purpose- has taken the rules to avoid the infection, then it is supposed to acquire the prevention devices such us condoms, used to have sex between infected and non-infected people, or sterilized needles, used to avoid the infection in drug addition. In this subject, the weak point for which prevention is very hard to expand all over the world is the lack of organizations, ONG's or governments determined to support the cost of  this such huge operation world wide. A creation of an international organization supported by the first world governments are supposed to be a good starting point to be aware that the eradication of AIDS around the world must concern to everyone.

	Thirdly, we should take into consideration to find a cure for AIDS by investigating in a coordinate way. One possible first step would be the prohibition of patents derived from AIDS medicines, in order to allow every laboratory to follow every line of investigation. A new concept of medicament has been developed that prolongs considerably infecteds' lives, as a research called "The global epidemic" <R> <Q>.
But a November 2006 study in the New England Journal of Medicine provides more evidence that life-long antiretroviral therapy has turned HIV/AIDS into a chronic disease rather than a countdown to death.
The study showed that people who take a break from HIV therapy to reduce the side-effects are more than twice as likely to die than those who take a steady course of the drugs. <Q>. But not everyone think research lines are being taken in the correct way. Dissident theories have been taken from the Spanish version of the Wikipedia <R> <Q>. Despite this disagreement, it seems generally accepted that the valid line of investigation is the one in which VIH virus and AIDS are connected and that this investigation goes to a possible solution about AIDS, the lengthening of life in very good conditions.

	To sum up, I have considered that there are three main factors that can lead us to the end of AIDS existence, information, that will create the basis of the acquisition of knowledge to solve theoretical problems; prevention, that will permit people around the world to be effectively protected against AIDS. Of these two factors, I came to the conclusion that much more has to be done although we can see movements in the right direction. The last factor, the investigation of an eventual cure of AIDS, appears to be clearly a factor that has to lead to information and prevention in order to eradicate AIDS from different lines of action. 



