
      In 2001, September 11th, four, apparently, high jacked aeroplanes were crashed in different parts of the U.S. such as the twin towers of the World Trade Center, in New York, changing the world as we knew it. George W. Bush government begun a crusade against "Osama Bin Laden and every nation, organization or group of people that has to do with these suicidal attacks in our country", as he said about a month later. The States declared war on Taliban government in Afghanistan, apparently again, because of its refusal to hand over Bin Laden and started bombing this country on the same year, in October 7th. From these days to present ones, lots of people have been detained in so many prisons all around the world by the U.S.A. and its "fight for freedom". One of the most well-known of these is the Guantánamo Bay Naval American Base in Cuba, converted nowadays into Guantánamo Bay detention camp where 385 people of more than 30 nationalities  - April 2007 updated- still stay imprisoned, many of them without any charge or reason. I would like the reader to ask him/herself these questions: Is Guantánamo a good solution to have all these people arrested there? Is everything well done in Guantánamo? And, finally, should Guantánamo stay operative or should it be closed eventually?
      In this essay I will give my reasons why this penitentiary has to be closed forever as far as basic human rights are not guaranteed.
      
      The first point to take into account could be the imprisoned treatment, as Amnesty International (AI from now on) clarify us all in a 2007 essay called: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Cruel and Inhuman: Conditions of isolation for detainees at Guantánamo Bay: <Q>.
      Bush administration has been forced by several international organizations like the mentioned before to make his politic steps clearer on this area since irregularities have been detected constantly all along these last six years. Then, it was revealed some interrogation methods that are completely illegal such as shown also in the essay previously mentioned: <Q>.
      However, I think that it's more realistic the version of AI that argues in other essay called:  USA: Treatment of prisoners in Afghanistan and Guantánamo Bay undermines human rights. Amnesty International memorandum to the US government: <Q> and a great number more of this supporting statements.
      
      Apart from the detainee treatment, I see remarkable to mention as a favourable reason this other subject: Prisoners have not had a proper detention on which neither international laws, nor military ones have been applied consequently. Resorting again to an AI report ,<Q> This essay also explains that the detainees since the first of them were arrested; they were transferred hooded, shackled and tied to Guantánamo.
      Despite these affirmations, the U.S. government has refused to grant any of the detainees in Afghanistan or Guantánamo Bay prisoner of war status, or to bring any disputed cases before a competent tribunal as required under the Geneva Conventions. The American justify this by saying that both Afghanistan and Guantánamo are not American territory on themselves and thus, American laws cannot be properly applied.
      It suddenly appears to me that, owning Guantánamo, they have a piece of the world where no one owns and they change laws as they wish, on which they can do and arrange whatever they want on their own profit. It seems to me that this wild piece of the world that is Guantánamo is, on the other hand, in the middle of the world according to North America geography and represents a very strategical space since it is overseas  - possible attacks have lower consequences- and it is very near from another very typical enemy of the U.S., Cuba. What I mean with this last paragraph is that the possession of this part of the island on which Cuba is settled down has more than one pro perspective that just the mere fact of having a jail in the middle of nowhere like being able to have an on Cuba and enjoying special laws.
      To sum up, I have tried to expose to the reader what, in my opinion, are the three main statements that I will support my conclusion. Briefly I enumerate them: Firstly, the imprisoned people treatment that Amnesty International define as cruel and inhuman; secondly, the illegal way of arresting people that, once again AI designates it as completely out of any international law; and lastly, the added or the real reason for what is really important Guantánamo, that is, for example, the geographical situation. Taking all these factors, what I infer from this is that, although there are more reasons against Guantánamo to stay as an American military base, I see that it is going to be very difficult, even for the international community, to close this criminal place or just regularize Guantánamo's situation partly.
      
 




