
	Legal adoption has existed for a century and is the most common way for people unable to 
conceive children to have the possibility to begin a family. Recently over 15000 gay couples in the 
USA have presented petitions to adopt a child as they can't conceive normally. There's a big 
proportion of society that agrees with gay adoptions and their attempts to begin a family, but 
there's also another proportion that completely disagree with this, thinking that it's anti natural. In 
this essay I will discuss and analyze the controversial subject of adoption among homosexual 
couples. 
	One of the most important issue related to adoption by homosexual couples is that society 
is beginning to acknowledge and accept it. Spain, last year approved the law that allows 
homosexual couples to adopt children, it is the third country to do this after Belgium and 
Netherlands.  According to El Mundo, this was a huge step towards the tolerance and respect 
towards homosexual couples in our society. Recent studies maid by Carrie Craft for Newsweek 
magazine, shows that homosexual couples that request permission for adoption are deeply studied 
and in most of the cases they are perfectly qualified to fulfill the parent role in attending to the 
necessities of the child. According to Carrie Craft in <R> 
there are estimated 300.000 to 500.000 gay and lesbian biological parents in 1976 in USA and 
between 8 and 10 million children are being raised in a gay and lesbian households. In the United 
States there's only one State that completely bans the adoption by gay couples, which is Florida. A 
recent study published in Newsweek Magazine said that the kids raised by a homosexual couple 
have much more self-esteem and are much more tolerant in society than those that were raised by 
heterosexual couples. It seems that looking this point of view, there isn't any problem of being 
raised by a gay couple, and  there are even several advantages that benefit these kids living in our 
modern societies. 
	Some people might argue that the adoption of a child by a gay couple is not "natural" and 
the child won't have a "natural" childhood and education . This is because society always thought 
of the family circle composed by a mother, a father and their child, and not a parenthood formed by 
two members of the same sex. So, from this point of view it's safe to say some people think that any 
other type of education such as that given by a homosexual environment, it's an aberration or a 
malformation of the reality. Another argument that society tend to think is the issue of  "instability" 
in homosexual couples should be a reason not to give the custody of a child. The Government 
should not  clearly give the custody of a child to a couple that  doesn't represent a solid ground 
where the children can lean on. But another opinion that we should take into account argues that, 
although there are instability in gay couples, the same as in straight couples if we look into an 
objective perspective, and in many cases are more stable, because gay couples have always had to 
challenge every step of their lives in order to be respected and considered part of the society, they 
respect and treat their relationship with a lot more tenderness and care. From this it could be 
considered that this couple even stronger and sure of what is doing, and are capable of facing almost 
any kind of problems as much as any straight couple.
	One of the main arguments in favor of adoption by homosexual couples is that there are lots 
of children hoping to become part of a family because they never knew what does that mean. 
Everybody knows that a child has the right to live a worthy live, with a family, parents, education 
etc. and gay couples are perfect for these children who are hoping to receive a family and love. 
There will always be a neediness of adoptive parents because there will always be children who 
need them, and the fact of being a couple of the same sex should not deprive those children of a 
home, and love, sometimes that they need so much, and the right of living as a normal child. An 
argument against homosexual couples is that society thinks that the fact of his or her parents are gay 
will influence in the child's sexuality. This theory is well supported because is well known that 
children learn from what they see around them and in most of the cases they imitate it, creating a 
confusion and a predisposing that the children should not learn, they should decide. Paul A. 
Wertsch, a physician and chairman of the American Medical Association's committee on gay and 
lesbian issues, says that there are gay teenagers declared gay or bisexual that have been raised in a 
gay households, and teenagers declared heterosexual raised in gay households as well. It's proved 
by Newsweek magazine studies made in 2004, that the 13 % of the children raised by a gay couple 
become gay, and a 12 % in the case of being raised by a heterosexual couple, so we can see that 
there's almost no difference, and Paul A. Wertsch declares <Q>. It seems to be a logical argument seeing that 
children being raised by homosexual couples have both gay or straight sexual tendencies. It cannot 
be determined that this!  issue determines your future sexual orientation.
	Another argument in favor of adoption by homosexual couples is that they can and want 
adopt children over the age of six years, as straight couples don't want to adopt children over this 
age. Gay and lesbian couples, don't care about the child age. It's demonstrated that the 80% of the 
purposes of adoption by homosexual couples are made in order to adopt children of any age, and in 
many cases over six years of age, and nowadays this is the only solution that these children have, 
this is their only chance to be happy, and these couples are able to give that to the child. This seems 
to be a realistic perspective seen that in this way children over six years can have a family. 
	Other point of view that we should take into account, according to the reality in itself is the 
discrimination that the child is going to suffer from society. It's discriminated on because of the 
sexual orientation of his or her parents and the situation of having two dads or two mums. This kind 
of discrimination is not beneficial, like any kind of discrimination, for a child, and when the 
discrimination is linked to the child's parents it's even worse. As Doreen Stermer, a twelve year old 
girl, says <Q>. So we know that it's a fact that it is very 
easy for a child to be the target of jokes and mocks from the rest of his or her colleagues, and even 
could affect the child psychologically . But associations such as COLAGE (Children of Lesbians 
and Gays Everywhere) try to make this situation more comfortable for the children and their 
parents. This association make activities such as campings and excursions for those families 
conformed by children and a gay or lesbian couple where they learn to appreciate what they have, 
and to be proud of being a part of a family however it is formed. This argument seems to make 
sense because although children adopted by a gay or lesbian couple are loved, they are still the 
center of ridicule, as it's something society is not used to.
	To conclude, we can see that there are many arguments both defending and condemning the 
adoption of children by homosexual couples. Most of the condemning arguments deal with the issue 
of  "naturalism" and how a child should be raised by two genders instead of two members of the 
same sex, in order to be raised properly with a male-female parenthood. Other arguments accept 
this kind of adoption in cases where the children won't be adopted by a heterosexual couple and can 
have a normal life with a homosexual couple. The terms in favor appear in most of the cases related 
to the issue of "modern" societies, and the respect that we should have towards homosexual people, 
because there is no reason to discriminate them, just the fear of  something different, and where 
people are respected for who they are and not rejected for who they love.









