	For the last decade, the attacks by dogs against people has made us doubt 
in the sentence: "the dog is the best friend for a man". According to Leonardo 
Sepulveda's researches published in  "conciencia animal", between 1979 and 
1996, 200 attacks by dogs against people were registered in the United States by 
different breeds. The succession of cases have created a distrust, specially 
towards determined breeds in which this aggressive behavior weren't isolated 
cases, and as a consequence, the controversial has been liberated, between those 
who defend the innocence of the animals, and those who totally blame them. In 
this essay I will show the different points of view, opinions and researches made by 
the topic, and then I will explain my own point of view of each of the examples.

	In Spain in 2002, the law that regulates the possession of potentially 
dangerous dogs was approved. This law reflects several characteristics that the 
called potentially dangerous dogs have. According to Felix Vallejo Lopez, 
master surgeon of the Veterinarian Hospital Happy Animal in Madrid, those 
characteristics are such as determined breeds or the crossbreed of these dogs, 
weight, physical appearance, measure of the thorax and height. Another 
requirement a person must have to posses in order to raise a dog classified in this 
category is the obtaining of a civil responsibility insurance. All this measures 
guarantee the high level of safety for the people against this potentially dangerous 
breeds for the population.

	But all these measures, from my point of view, would be useless if we do not 
educate the dog properly from the very beginning. For this purpose, there are 
plenty of academies dedicated to this issue, such as Agility Canine Training all 
over the world. These academies provide a guide in order to educate our dog, and 
specially those dogs considered dangerous. We should realize that we consider 
dangerous those dogs that exceed some height and weight, the problem just 
resides in physical appearance, not in mental behavior, because the primal, animal 
instinct is the same in all the breeds, and looking at this, we should consider all 
dogs that won't be well educated as potentially dangerous, the only difference is 
the physical power in the different breeds, that of course is different. So, this 
instinct can be controlled, and the risk that the people are afraid of being exposed 
to is totally erased. A good education is the key to get a pet instead of an 
uncontrollable animal.

	Attacks by dogs against people have been registered towards almost any 
kind of the population, there's no apparent reason or a specified victim for these 
dogs, so the alarm has been activated, because everyone feels already a victim. 
But, from my point of view, I think that we should analyze the different reasons of 
the attacks, consider the possibilities and reasons that could lead the dog to 
behave in an aggressive way. First, the principal reason of the attack could reside 
in the owner of the dog. This is because of the education that the dog has 
received, the education that the animal have had all along its life determines its 
behavior towards determined situations. A dog that has received violence, anger 
and pain will just know to react to some stimulus in the same way, because the dog 
won't ever know other kind of behavior. Another reason could be a possible 
provocation towards the dog by the victim. In other words it could be because of an 
aggression by the victim towards the owner of the dog, or the dog in itself. This is 
because, a well educated dog identifies its owners as part of its pack, it is called 
"natural protection instinct", an instinct present in all living beings to protect all 
the members of the family or the pack. The third reason could be because of the 
fact that many dogs are abandoned every year, these dogs need to survive 
because all the maintenance they had is gone, and all their instincts of survival 
become the primal and when they feel threatened they react with aggressiveness. 
We can see that even this last case is because of the fact that people abandon 
many dogs every year, thinking that they're just a new toy to play with, without 
think in the possible consequences.

	Another event that has increased the panic around this issue, is the 
knowledge of necrofagy in Almeria last year. One article posted in "el Mundo" 
newspaper explained that a woman's body was found in her own home, into pieces 
and with her own dog kickbacks. The social alarm was encendida because 
of the seriousness of the event. People began to think that even some dogs, could 
kill their owners and feed themselves with them, creating a panic climate because 
of the believe of the assassin instinct some dogs can have. Looking at this events, 
the trust towards dogs has been reduced drastically, because people think that 
they don't know they're going to react in some situations, people think that the 
dogs are not under control. But, later investigations, proved that the woman was 
already dead when the dog ate her. Forensics found out that the woman died ten 
days before the dog feed itself from her, this discover demonstrated the innocence 
of the dog, that only was moved by survival instinct, and instinct that is present in 
every organism, even in human beings that in some occasions have been in that 
situation have had to take decisions in extreme conditions (the accident in the 
Andes Mountains in 1972 were the survivals had to eat their dead colleagues in 
order to survive); the person that fed the dog was dead and if the dog wouldn't 
have fed itself by her owner would have died, the dog didn't kill the woman, just 
tried to survive, and this animal was killed without justification, because people 
thought that it was who killed the woman.

	The last event I'm going to mention is the illegal dog fights that happens 
everywhere. People think that this kind of dogs, called "dangerous", are just useful 
fort his kind of activities, activities that we should remind that are illegal. The 
ferocity that these dogs show in these fights, even reaching the dead point of the 
other dog make people think that this is the only duty or capacity of these dogs. A 
recent study made by Ken Sewell, a dog instructor, shows that more than the 40% 
of the people requested admits of being afraid of this kind of dogs because of the 
news and events happened, and the only thing these dogs can do is fighting in this 
illegal fights. But there's another side of this event. Juan Carlos de la Cal, 
Magazine's journalist, published an investigation article about the specific training 
that these dogs must follow in order to become fighters. These kind of 
entertainment is very common in the south of Italy, were have been notified more 
than 100 dog fights in 2003 in Napoles. This investigations shows that the most 
wanted dog breed for these fights are the pit bulls, because of their physiognomy 
and musculature. From their very early ages, they're trained in a very specify way. 
The owners, put high weight around the dog's neck to fortify it, bad and violent 
behavior against the dog make it more aggressive, they covered its eyes to reduce 
its visibility, the dog is subdued to exhausted training to improve its pulmonary 
capacities and finally to stimulate its aggressiveness, the dog is not fed in ten days 
and then is liberated in a farmyard to kill the hens to be able to eat something. 
Even when the fight day arrives, the dog is not fed and only ingests drugs and pills 
to make it uncontrollable. Looking at this, we can see that the dog in order to be a 
killer to participate in this fights has to receive a special education, based on 
violence, despise and inhumanity. Every single animal that have been educated by 
these principles is going to be wild, <Q> <R>. So, in a home with love, caring and respect towards the 
dog, the animal will give exactly the same as it receives because is the only treat 
that it is going to know. This statement is well supported by the attacks registered 
in the United States. It shows that not only one breed is the responsible of this 
attacks, many breeds star in these aggressions. In the USA the most common 
breed is the pit bull one, but in Spain the German shepherd is the breed that have 
caused more murders than any other breed, as in France and Germany. So this is 
not reduced to an specific type of breed, the aggressive behavior has to do with the 
education that the dog received and its purposes.

	To conclude I'd like to say that looking at all these examples, opinions and 
facts, the controversial around the aggressiveness in dogs is far from being 
resolved. But when one of these attacks or aggressions happen, we should 
investigate the reasons and causes for these aggressions, because in most of the 
cases only the human being is responsible of this behavior according to the 
education of these dogs. It's really sad to change the sentence of the introduction 
before mentioned, because always the dog have been the best friend of human, 
and only humans are capable of change the fidelity and nobility that characterize 
the animal, into a weapon for our own interests, that as we can see could have 
fatal consequences, we're the major responsible of these tragedies, because we 
govern on the dog, and we modulate its conduct. It's still surprising to us that a dog 
attack somebody nowadays, but we are accustomed to see murders, rapes and 
felonies between humans everyday.



