Nowadays, we send spaceships to foreign planets, we find cures to mortal illnesses, we can say 
that we live in a modern society, but important and primitive problems are still present in our world. 
One of that big problems is the sexual abuses towards children, considered as a crime, but also 
considered as a curable illness, something that use to lead to an insufficient reaction by the Justice. 
In our days one of every five girls, and one of every ten boys will suffer sexual abuses before their 
adult age in the United States, this figure is really alarming, because it means that we just can find 
solutions when the problem is real, and it has happened. In this essay I intent to explain according 
to my point of view the almost impossible cure for sexual criminals, and try to find a solution to this 
problem.

Firstly, according to Freud's theories sexual desviations are considered as sexual conducts that are 
not understood by the majority of the people. Some of this conducts are not considered as crimes 
because does not affect or damage third people, and are enjoyed by the couple or implicated 
people. But by this definition we find the problem, the majority of this conducts are not permitted 
and we consider that person as a victim, because in this case, children are no conscious of what's 
happening to them, they're suffering and most of the cases they do it in silence. According to "Facts 
and figures of psychoanalysis" by Ives Hendrick 3 different steps precede the act of sexual crime:
	1 Power's will, where the criminal think that he should demonstrated to himself that he's 	   
	superior to his victim.
	2 Risk, where the criminal has the opportunity, and this excites him.
	3 Revenge, revenge as a feeling of the abuse he suffered in the past.

We used to think that sexual abuses happened just in isolated cases, that the criminal does not 
know the victim, but according to statistics in most of all denunciated cases, the aggressor was 
somebody close to the victim's circle, somebody of confidence. And year by year this circle has 
become even bigger, the church has been included in this risk zone, publicly because sexual 
abuses in these fields have occurred since a long time ago, but recently discovered. <Q> <R>. 
Even worse than the crime in itself 
is that it's been happening for a long time in a place where many people we considered that we're 
safe, in the church, and it's has been covered and hidden. The maximum penalty in Spain 
because of sexual abuse is 14 years and in many cases the release reduce the penalty even 
more. This kind of punishment does not fix anything that he criminal did, when this man is 
liberated his conduct towards children has not change and the victim is now a young man with 
important psychological problems. 

On the other hand, a lot of doctors, psychologists and psychiatrist, have demonstrated that in the 
90% of the cases the sexual criminals against children, have suffered any kind of sexual aggression 
in their child ages, so if we really think about it, it's not something that the criminal does without any 
kind of reason, it has an origin, and the fact of have been a victim makes him a sexual criminal in 
his future. But according to the latest cases and declarations by the accused and witnesses, the 
sexual criminal is very very  meticulous in order to choose his victims, his targets are vulnerable 
children whom the criminal takes a long time to know and getting very close to. Also, the criminal 
uses to blackmail his victims, such as "If you tell it your parents will not love you again" or "God's 
going to punish you". These kind of strategies make children to hide their suffering and sometimes 
even the crime is always unknown. From 898 reports in Spain, more than the 70% occurred fifty 
years ago. So, we can't admit that this kind of crimes and abuses are committed with the total 
conscience, even there's a plan in order to escape from jail or justice, so yes, they're mental sick 
people but the majority refuses any kind of treatment, they prefer to continue hurting innocent 
children and not finding a solution of their problem which they're conscious about.

Thirdly, it's demonstrated that sexual criminals are recidivist, they not commit the crime just once, 
they commit the crime every time that is viable. So, we cannot consider this kind of crime as an 
isolated case, we must be aware that when this happens, we can't assume that maybe that man 
made a mistake when he abused a child, this will happen again for sure and we should eradicate it 
from the very beginning. But, as I said before, this kind of behavior is considered as an illness, and 
in most of the cases the origin of this conduct is in the child ages of the sexual criminal, he behaves 
like this because he suffered the same abuse years ago. So, as an illness it could be treated. In 
Chihuahua, Mexico, a chemical castration is promoted for the sexual criminals in jail. It's a female 
hormones injection that reduces the sexual desire in the criminal. Other treatment that is being used 
nowadays is the called psycho therapy of behavior. But these female hormone injections are just 
applied to those criminals who wants to reduce their penalties and to those criminals who 
committed the crime more than once. But is demonstrated that these treatments are not effectives, 
in most cases not even an improvement is present, so we can assume that nowadays there's no 
treatment for this mental illness, and the only measure in some ways effective is jail, but even this 
method is no really so effective as we think because as I said before, the penalties imposed to this 
kind of criminals are even ridiculous, because the jail is not going to help them in their mental 
illness, the jail is a way to keep them away from children and away of the crime, does not help in 
their sexual obsession.

To conclude I have tried to show that nowadays even in our "modern societies" sexual crimes 
against children are very far away to be solved, all we accept that the sexual criminals are sick 
people, people that suffered the same crimes and aberrations they're committing towards innocent 
children, but there's no treatment at the moment, they cannot control themselves, and sadly, the 
only way that we can keep them away from the crime that they cannot avoid, because the therapies 
and theories that maybe could help these people are effective in a very reduced percentage, and 
that's not enough, when these treatment would be hundred per cent effective we could say that we 
have a cure. We should show children to not be ashamed of their suffering, that they are not the 
offenders, and that for them there's possible solution. <Q> <R>



