

     Without any doubt capital punishment is the most serious and oldest punishment 
known in history. For centuries, it never was discussed if capital punishment was 
justified or not. They simply killed the prisoner without thinking if what they did was 
moral or immoral. Capital punishment was the highest punishment which satisfied at the 
same time the necessities of revenge, justice and security of the community from an 
infected member. In spite of the passing of time, capital punishment is still used and a 
very controversial subject today. The recent execution of Stanley Tookie Williams in the 
state of California in the United Stated has reopened this debate of 
the justification of capital punishment. In this essay I intend to discuss the controversial 
subject of capital punishment and giving my point of view in relation to the points 
discussed.
     One of the most important arguments in favour of capital punishment is the fact 
that it gives a sense of security into the community. Once the criminal is executed there 
is no chance that he or she will kill or injure anybody else. People who are in favour of 
capital punishment argue that death penalty is more effective that prison as it deters 
murders, which gives the community a sensation of safety.  During the temporary 
suspension on capital punishment from 1972-1976 in the USA, researchers gathered 
murder statistics across the country. In 1960, there were 56 executions in the USA and 
9,140 murders. By 1964, when there were only 15 executions, the number of murders 
had risen to 9,250. In 1969, there were no executions and 14,590 murders, and 1975, 
after six more years without executions, 20,510 murders occurred rising to 23,040 in 
1980 after only two executions since 1976. In summary, between 1965 and 1980, the 
number of annual murders in the United States skyrocketed from 9,960 to 23,040, a 131 
percent increase <R>.
     In spite of these references, I strongly believe that death penalty is not effective as 
a deterrent of crime, especially murders. I think that states that have death penalty laws 
do not have lower crime rates or murder rates than states without such laws. And states 
that have abolished capital punishment, or instituted it, show no significant changes in 
either crime or murder rates. A report of the Bureau of Justice Statistics showed that 
during 1996, Southern states, where about 81% of the executions are performed, have 
an average murder rate of 9 per 100,000 population. States in the Northeast are 
responsible for 1% of the executions and have a murder rate of 5.4 
<R>. So that, I personally believe 
that, in some cases, death penalty is not  a deterrent of crime but  an anti- deterrent of 
homicides and crime.
     Another point in favour of capital punishment is that of the victim's families . The 
use of death penalty gives those families who have lost a loved person the peace of 
mind and the relief of having finished with the one who has caused so much damage. 
According to News Batch Article about Death Penalty, proponents of capital death 
argue that the it provides an emotional compensation to the families of crime victims     
<R>. We can see this very well reflected in 
this testimonial of a family victim: <Q> <R>.
     In my opinion this argument is not very convincing, as the death penalty will not 
return to you that loved person you have lost or make disappear your suffering. I can 
also argue that not all victim families are in favour of death penalty. There are 
organizations in which the murder victims' families fight for the abolition of death 
penalty. This is the case of the Murder Victims' Families for Reconciliation, which 
believes that <Q> <R>. Another association says 
that <Q> <R>.
     This point is much related with another point pro capital punishment, which is the 
fact that death penalty legitimizes revenge and thrust for justice. This is a modern 
version of the Law of Talion: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. <Q> <R>.
There are people who justify death penalty for the simple fact that it is stated in the 
Bible.
     In my opinion, this argument seems very illogical and not correct at all in a 
modern Christian view. The modern Christian believes more in the New Testament, 
which is the part of the Christian Bible that was written after the birth of Jesus Christ. In 
this part we can find many arguments in favour of respect, forgiveness and love. As an 
example I can point out the words of the Book of Luke. <Q> <R>. In spite 
of all sins you have done, if you are a Christian you should forgive and give the other 
hand to those who have hurt you. For this reason, I strongly believe that it is ridiculous 
that some people justify death penalty only basing their arguments in some words of the 
Bible.
     On the other hand, there are many points against capital punishment. One of these 
arguments would be the principle of respect for life. To support this idea it would be 
argued that nobody has the right of taking away the life of another person. For those 
people who believe in the Christian religion, only God has the right of taking the life of 
the people. <Q> <R>.
     I agree completely with this argument, because I believe that anybody has the right 
to take away the life of anybody. Beside this, I believe that it is a violation of the 
principles exposed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In its third article, it is 
stated that everyone has the right to life, liberty and security. Using the death penalty 
violates completely this principle. In its fifth article, it is stated that no one shall be 
subjected to cruel or degrading punishment. If we apply the death penalty, in my opinion,  
we are also violation this principle, as for me, the death penalty is a cruel, inhuman and 
degrading punishment <R>.
     Another point against capital punishment is the fact, as I have already pointed out 
before, that it is not an effective method. For abolitionists, it is not proved that murders 
and crime decrease in those states in which death penalty is applied. The most important 
proof for this is the fact that if this was so, crime and murders will disappear completely. 
The state of Texas has executed more criminals than any other state, yet it still has one of 
the highest murder rates in the nation 
<R>. So that we see that death penalty is not an effective deterrent of crime.
     This argument seems a very convincing argument for me, as I think that there are 
more alternatives to death penalty, as prison without parole or life imprisonment. 
According to Mario Cuomo, Governor of New York, life imprisonment is <Q> <R>. So that, we see that 
life imprisonment it is not only a good deterrent of crime, but also cheaper than death 
penalty. 
     Another point against capital punishment is the fact that not all prisoners who were 
executed were guilty. The execution of innocent defendants is a present risk in the 
application of death penalty. In February 1998, an appeal court in the United Kingdom  
posthumously overturned the conviction of Mahmood Hussein Mattan, a Somali national 
who was executed in September 1952 after a trial strongly tainted by racism. The court 
determined that witnesses at the original trial were unreliable and that prosecutors had 
withheld evidence that a man similar in appearance to Mattan was more likely the actual 
murderer. The case demonstrated that <Q> <R>. In February 1994, 
authorities in Russia executed serial killer Andrei Chikatilo for the highly-publicised 
murders of 52 people. The authorities acknowledged that they had previously executed 
the "wrong man", Alexander Kravchenko, for one of the murders in their desire <Q>. Another innocent man suspected by the authorities of the killings 
committed suicide <R>. These are 
only two examples of how death penalty has lot of flaws in its legal system, and how it is 
not a infallible system.
     In my opinion, this is one of the most important and strongest arguments against 
capital punishment. I think that the simple fact of executing an innocent prisoner shows 
that there are lots of flaws with the death penalty as a punishment. Another example of the 
cruelty of death penalty and its process in the death row is that of Mario Flores. Mario 
was arrested in connection with a fatal shooting that took place during a traffic accident 
dispute on New Year's Eve, 1983-84. Mario has always maintained his innocence, and 
during the gruelling 19-hour police interrogation he informed police that he was at a New 
Year's Eve party at the time of the offence and that several witnesses could verify it. No 
physical evidence has ever directly linked Mario to the commission of the offence. The 
prosecution's case was built solely upon the testimony of witnesses who not only waited 
over eleven months to come forward, but did so at a time when they were facing criminal 
charges and needed help from the State's Attorney Office. So, without ever knowing 
about Mario's viable alibi defence, it took the jury only 70 minutes to convict him of 
capital murder, and three hours to conclude that he was not worthy of life. They 
condemned him to death penalty, although he was innocent. He was released from prison 
7 months ago after spending one and 1/2 years in general population. Prior to that he was 
on death row for almost 20 years during which time he became a lawyer and a 
distinguished painter <R>. In my opinion, this is a 
good example which shows the flaws that this system has.
     There are other arguments that can be classified as middle points in the theme of 
death penalty. One of these arguments would be that of people who are against the death 
penalty but who are in favour of the death penalty if the convict is proved to be guilty. In 
2003, a report conducted by Gallop, showed that 74 % of the people interviewed were in 
favour of death penalty when the convict was proved to be guilty. 
<R>. Thanks to the technological advances 
that we have today, such as DNA testing, we can prove whether a person is innocent or 
guilty.  There have been 111 people released from death row because DNA evidence 
proved they did not commit the crime for which they were convicted. Even with this 
information, 55 percent of the public feels confident that the death penalty is applied 
fairly, while 39 percent say it is not <R>.
     In spite of all this, I strongly believe that the death penalty has no justification, not 
even when the convict is guilty. The psychological torture of the prisoner, waiting for the 
day to die and living in very bad conditions, for me are two of the main reasons that have 
led me to believe that no one should be condemned to die. American society has spent 
years making sure criminals are in as little physical pain as possible during their 
execution. But, on the other hand, I believe the psychological pain the convict goes 
through in the days, months, or years leading up to their execution can be compared to no 
other, and can be described as nothing but torture 
 <R>. I think that the conditions are 
also another influence to this psychological torture. Prisoners on death row live alone in 
very small cells, which they rarely leave, are allowed less visits than normal prisoners, 
and usually only interact with guards and other death row inmates. So that, in my opinion, 
the prisoner spends his or her remaining time on earth fighting for their life in a cramped 
cell.
     To conclude, this essay has considered several factors related with the topic capital 
punishment and I have expressed my point of view about them. Three main points of view 
have been seen: those for capital punishment, such as the sense of security it gives to the 
community, the relief it gives to the victim's families, and that the death penalty 
legitimizes revenge and thrust for justice. Some points of view against death penalty, such 
as the principle of respect for life, the fact that it is not an effective method, and the fact 
that not all executed prisoners were guilty. A different point of view has been discussed; 
that of the people who are for death penalty only if the prisoner is proven guilty. 
Considering all this information, I believe that death penalty is not the answer, nor the 
solution to end with crime, and that people who are against capital punishment should get 
together and fight to eliminate it from the legal system.
     
     
     
     
     
      
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 


8

