        
        The history of sexuality over the past has been a history of repression. Sex, 
except for the purposes of reproduction was seen as a taboo among people. For many 
years, it was unthinkable to have sexual relationships with somebody that was not your 
wife or husband, as it was not accepted by society conventions and by the people 
themselves. Nowadays, our thinking about sexuality has developed considerably. 
Topics that were considered as immoral ones in the past, are now very talked about 
issues, as for example sporadic relationships or the pleasures of sex. In spite of all this, 
sex before marriage continues being a controversial subject among different sectors. In 
this essay I intend to discuss the controversial subject of sex before marriage, trying to 
analyse different points of view.
        One of the most important issues related in favour of premarital sex is the fact 
that is something natural. When we are babies, we first learn about the physical 
sensations produced in our sexual areas. <Q> <R>. All this is essential in the growth 
of the baby and its development physical and psychologically. Masturbation is also a 
natural part of everybody sex life. It will bring along many of the benefits of sex with a 
partner and also provide a great time to learn about our body and sexuality. The 
discovery of our sexual areas helps adults to be more comfortable with their bodies and 
to be familiar with their usual appearance and feelings. This appears to be a convincing 
argument because the getting to know of our bodies helps us to develop and grow 
physical and psychologically stronger.
        Another issue related in favour of sex before marriage is the fact that sex can be 
quite beneficial to our health. In one study correlating overall health with sexual 
frequency, Queens University in Belfast tracked the mortality of about 1000 middle-
aged men over the course of a decade. Its results showed that men who reported the 
highest frequency of orgasms enjoyed a death rate half of those who didn't practise it 
<R>. In fact sex can improve our sense of smell due to a 
hormone produced after sex, which stimulates the olfactory nerve; sex also reduces the 
risk of heart disease, as it increases blood flow; it can make you lose weight and help 
you in your body maintenance, as in sexual intercourse burns off 150 calories every half 
an hour; sex reduces depression, as sperms contains a male sex hormone (prostaglandin) 
that when it is absorbed in the female reproductive tract helps to regulate female 
hormones maintaining a balance and decreasing mood swings and depression.
        Sex can also improve your immunity system: people who practices sex once or 
twice a week have higher rates of immunoglobulin A, a known immune booster; it can 
also help us to have nicer teeth. This is due to the seminal fluid that contains zinc, 
calcium and minerals that retard tooth decay. It is also demonstrated that sex help us to 
keep our prostates healthy. Some urologists believe there is a relationship between 
infrequency of ejaculation and cancer of prostate. Urologists say that when the prostate 
and the seminal vesicles produce seminal fluid they take minerals, as zinc and calcium, 
and concentrate them up to 600 times. The carcinogens present in the blood 
concentrated proportions of these minerals. So, as we see, this argument is 
rather convincing as it proves in a scientifically way the amount of benefits that the 
practice of sex has in our bodies.
        Another point in favour of premarital sex is the fact that sex is a pleasure in 
itself. Some people believe that having sex before marriage can help the couple enjoy 
different feelings and emotions from what they usually share in their day to day life. 
Sexual relationships can be the physical expression of love, care and affection towards 
your partner, so it helps to provide a more intimate and closer relationship between the 
couple. In fact, a recent study in the United States indicates that the amount of couples 
that practice premarital sex has increased in the last 50 years <R>. 
On the other hand, sex can be done only as that: as a physical entertainment, only for 
pleasure. One of the reasons people practice sex is to reach the climax, which is the 
highest point of sexual excitement characterized by strong feelings of pleasure  
<R>. So, this argument seems to make sense, as 
premarital sex is not only a way to unify the couple and provide a deeper relationship 
between the members, but also gives one of the most pleasurable entertainments.
        A different point of view against premarital sex is the point of view if the 
Christian Church. The Christian morality rejects sex before marriage and sees it as a sin. 
In the Bible we can see clearly the condemnation to sexual relationships outside 
marriage. For example adultery is forbidden in the Bible: <Q> <R>.For believers, premarital sex is also seen as a crime of the same type 
<R>. In the New Testament, Jesus Christ emphasized that to 
entertain lustful desires towards a person of the opposite sex outside marriage means to 
be guilty of adultery <R>. The Bible strongly condemns sex outside marriage 
because for believers sex represents the most intimate intercourse in relationships, 
representing the idea of "one-flesh", the total unity. The fact that a person can have 
different sexual intercourses with different people is considered, for that reason, as 
sexual immorality. It's not possible that a person can express love and commitment with 
different partners: <Q> <R>. For believers, marriage is the 
only way to became one with the partner, not only verbally but also legally, by 
assuming responsibility and commitment.  This argument seems to make sense to all 
those people who believe in the Christian religion, as for them marriage is the only way 
to express their love through sexual union.
        In addition to this point of view, Christian believers defend abstinence before 
marriage. Abstinence is the only 100% effective way to avoid unwanted pregnancies 
and also sexual transmitted diseases. It also has some advantages such as that of no 
medical or hormonal side effects. Abstinence is a very good way to postpone those 
sexual risks that sex has until you are able to face 
them <R>. In spite of this, it can be difficult to wait 
until marriage to begin a sexual relationship. To begin with, in our parents' generation, 
it was common for people to marry young. Today, couples are pressured to finish 
school, start a career, save money and get their lives in order before marrying, so it is 
difficult to wait until marriage to have sexual relationships, as new generations are 
marrying at a later age. Also for people who want to marry, the process goes very 
slowly; it may even take months. In addition to all this, living together with your partner 
can be even cheaper than marrying, and another reason is the fact that today 
contraceptives are more effective than in the past, so people don't fear getting pregnant. 
So, as we see, the problem of abstinence is that it doesn't adjust itself to our present 
reality.
        There are other arguments that can be classified as middle points in the theme of 
premarital sex. One of these arguments would be the fact that young generations 
practice sex at early ages, without being conscious of it risks. In some cases they are 
pressured by social forces, group of friends or even the media. According to the 
California State University, youths in United States begin their sexual lives at very early 
ages. The percentage of teenagers sexually active has increased from 13% in 1943 to 
47% in 1999 <R>. In spite of all the resources that are available for 
avoiding sexual transmitted diseases and unwanted teen pregnancies, in Tennessee, 
North America the majority of sexually transmitted diseases occur in people aged 
between 15 and 29. By the age 21, approximately one out of every five young people 
has required treatment for a sexually transmitted disease <R>. In 
respect with teen pregnancies, rates are decreasing in Tennessee but continue to be high. 
In 2003, a total of 4,345 girls aged 15-17 became pregnant <R>. 
From this information it could be said that youths are even today far from taking sex in 
a serious way.
        To conclude, this essay has considered several factors related with the topic of 
sex before marriage. Three main points of view has been seen: positive aspects of sex 
before marriage, as sex as a natural thing, its positive benefits in our health and also the 
sex as a pleasure in itself; negative views of premarital sex, as premarital sex as a sin 
and as an immoral practice; and one possible middle point of view, the practice of sex 
by young generations. Considering all these points, it might be reasonable to respect 
everybody's beliefs towards the issue of sex, and consider sex not only as an arbitrary 
thing but as a serious issue.
        
        
        
