         Domestic violence is a current problem all over the world. Violence is 
defined by the Riverside Webster's Dictionary as physical force employed so as to 
damage or injure or as an instance of violent action. But when we talk about violence 
we are not only talking about physical violence, but also emotional, referring to actions 
that cause loss or self- steam, psychological, referring to actions which create fear, and 
sexual abuse. Tradition is what gives men the right to control their family and, over all, 
their wives.  In the United States, nearly six million American women will be battered 
by their husbands every year <R>. In Spain 43 women have already died 
at hands of their husbands this year. With all these alarming facts, what can be done to 
correct this violent and hostile situation? In this essay I propose some solutions to solve 
this controversial problem.
         To begin with, it seems to me that one possible and essential solution would 
be that of educating children from the very beginning at home in sexual equality. I think 
that many families educate their children in a different way, depending on the type of 
sex. Boys are aloud to arrive home later at night than girls; they get a way with doing 
less housework, etc... meanwhile girls have less freedom and work at home a lot more 
than them. They are also obliged to give more explanations about what they do or what 
they want to do. All this is justified by a sense of protection.
          Another thing that, in my opinion, creates inequality between men and 
women is the issue of toys. Most of the toys that are made for girls are those ones 
related with housework and motherhood, so, from my point of view, it foments a sexist 
mentality that gives women certain roles, attitudes and values in society different from 
those of men <R>.
         However, some people say that women have reached sexual equality with 
men, most of all in the workforce and in education. For example, in Spain, the 
introduction of women in the workforce has increased very much: in the last twenty 
years, 2, 6 million women, with ages between 25 and 44, have incorporated in the 
Spanish workforce. This inflation is due to women's incorporation into superior studies, 
which supposed the 2,1% in 1977, meanwhile in 1998 it was of 10,1% <R>. But, on the other hand, in my opinion, gender equality has not occurred now 
and won't occur for a long time if we don't change this inequality present in society. 
Women are paid a 16% less than men for doing the same job; they are also not well 
seen in certain jobs, as for example in the Army or in Politics; also the dole among 
women in Europe has increased, in spite of the reforms. In my opinion, all these factors 
contribute to create hostility between men and women. We can not forget that domestic 
violence is another manifestation of social domination <R>.
         Another type of education that is essential for me is education at schools. In 
general, I believe that schools are achieving some objectives to develop in students 
attitudes of respect and responsibility, without differencing between sexes, so that they 
are obligated to respect each other, to listen to one another and not to make fun of other 
peers. On the other hand, there are situations in which boys and girls are discriminated, 
for example in Sports classes, in which boys tend play football and girls play with the 
skipping rope, or the use of uniforms to go to school.
         Secondly, in my opinion, another possible solution would be re-educate 
batterers and reinsert them in society after certain courses. The objective of these 
courses would be make batterers aware of their responsibility in violent situations at 
home and make them learn to use other resources to solve their problems. I think that 
the most important step to do this is that batterers must recognize they have a problem  
<Q> <R>. Last 
year, in Bilbao, 13 men were in one of these courses for batterers and all of them shared 
a common characteristic: the 85% had suffered domestic violence during their 
childhood <R>. From my point of view, one of the most 
important consequences of seeing domestic violence at home would be accept violence 
as an usual and normal behaviour.
         On the other hand, some people feel that re-educate and reinsert batterers in 
society is not possible, as this kind of courses present a huge amount of batterers and 
because the possibility of reintegration in society make some batterers free of prison 
<R>. Nevertheless, although the procedure is not good, I 
believe that the objective is essential. We should create groups with very few batterers, 
or even individual therapies, and never justify reintegration in society without 
completing penalties.
         Thirdly, I strongly believe that we must give more assistance to battered 
women. In my opinion, Women Defence Associations and boarding houses are essential 
places to help all these battered women, giving them an immediate assistance, free legal 
assessment and, above all, they give battered women and their children the conviction 
that nobody has the right in beating them. The problem for me is that these aids are 
insufficient or inefficient, as there are a huge number of women that report their 
partners on domestic violence charges every month. For example, in Spain we have a 
mean of 8 million of reports a month <R>. However many people 
believe that there are sufficient aids for battered women, something that, from my point 
of view, is not completely true. We should think that nearly the 100% of battered 
women need psychological assistance and also free therapies to recover from the 
violence suffered. Not all of them receive this help. We also must insist on the payment 
of food allowances for the kids and ask for jobs for all those women who have suffered 
violence for years.
         Finally, personally speaking, I feel that the legal system is not very effective 
in the issue of domestic violence, so I propose that the law should be tougher and take 
this misdemeanour more seriously. The legal system considers domestic violence as a 
less important aggression than others. In fact, police officers are told to not arrest in 
cases of violence calls. The reasoning is, once again, the civil matters of domestic 
violence being a "family problem" .I believe that considering domestic violence a 
misdemeanour and not a crime increases the difficulty in adopting measures to protect 
victims. For example, in Spain, 8 thousand men were judged of domestic violence, but 
only the 62.9% were condemned. On the other hand, some people feel that protection 
measures for victims have improved very much in the last years. For example, in Spain, 
a new law was introduced this year, "Orden de protección de victimas de la violencia 
domestica", which guarantees battered women's protection. However, I still think that 
these measures are not very effective, as 43 women have already died in Spain this year.
         In conclusion, in this essay I have proposed some possible solutions to solve 
the controversial subject of domestic violence. One possible and essential solution for 
me would be not only to educate children at home, but also in schools, in the equality of 
sexes. As we have also seen, another possible solution would be re-educate batterers 
and reinsert them in society after certain courses. Thirdly, I proposed another solution, 
which is that of giving battered women more assistance and helps. And finally, I 
suggested the solution of making the law stricter and take the problem of domestic 
violence more seriously.  We as a society should take action and compose social as well 
as political laws to rectify this situation.
 

