
If I were to go out into the street and ask any person to name a war criminal, every 
single one of them could give me a name. Nowadays and specially thanks to the high 
speed information world in which we live, wars are covered 24 hours a day, having the 
recent example of the invasion of Iraq in 2003. From day one of a conflict, even if we 
didn't know anything about the countries involved, both daily newspapers & 
audiovisual Medias will fill us in with everything we need to know. Especially of who 
are the "good guys" and who are the "bad guys". 
In this essay I intend to look at those so called "good guys", and demonstrate that the 
title of war criminal should be broaden in my opinion,  to many people who have been 
looked at many times even as heroes.  

History is full of famous wars that have famous battles and of course, famous people 
involved. And some of these people are considered either heroes or villains. This has 
always been like this, and I have a feeling that it will probably stay likewise, because 
people seem to need them, either to love or to hate.
If we were to look at any country's history we would see pages upon pages of illustrated 
figures of their time, such as, taking an example from the United Kingdom's recent 
history, Winston Churchill, who was voted the "Best Briton" by a television poll in the 
year 2004. Could there be anything bad to say about Churchill? 
He is a sacred figure in the English culture and for the English nation because of all he 
did for us in the II World War, and his place as one of the so called heroes is very 
difficult to argue. Of course we could say that maybe he wasn't a particularly good 
father, or even that he used to kick the horses as a child in his family estate (as quoted 
from George Orwell on Winston Churchill), but this would mean falling into 
exaggeration. I personally dislike Churchill, because to me he was nothing more than a 
loud mouthed ex-radical, recycled conservative imperialist, but I would never dare say a 
falsehood against him because without a shadow of a doubt, he was a great man. 
Of course this is only an example of someone who is considered a hero, or at least an 
admirable figure of the 20th century to whom very fey people hold any grudge. 

On the flip side of History we have other characters that are considered pure evil. 
An example of this would be a famous character of the early beginnings of the United 
Kingdom, Oliver Cromwell. I had a teacher in high school when I was about 15 that had 
a very curious catch-phrase. She seemed to have had a few problems in her time whilst 
visiting England, and came back rather cheesed off with the English people. She used to 
say to us: "If at any point in your life an Englishman asks you; how's Franco? You 
should immediately answer back; fine thank you, and Cromwell? 
This is of course a very radical and short analysis of the figure of Cromwell, but of 
course it holds a very big truth; Cromwell is the English example of a "proto fascist 
dictator".  The Irish nation not only believe this but they go further, calling Cromwell a 
"messenger from hell", as his "pacification", as he called it, of the Irish isle was more of 
a brutal massacre. He was a man who killed Charles II because he constantly closed and 
therefore silenced the voice of the people in parliament; but when Cromwell ascended 
to power, just a few years later, he himself closed it because of a dispute with the 
members. Having said all this, his statute still adorns the front entrance of the Houses of 
Parliament, because he was after all, a warrior for the parliamentary cause; and you will 
find many people from the English Jewish community that have very kind words 
towards Cromwell, as he was the first English ruler to permit Jews to freely carry on 
with their beliefs & traditions.

Before I carry on I would like to clarify that in my personal view, anyone that carries 
the title "hero" after the word "war", is the worst kind of qualifier you could give to a 
person, as above all, war is the most stupid thing invented by the human kind. 
But as that point of view may seem to radical, and if were to be at least a bit more 
objective, Both of the cases stated above are at least, two clear ones of what should be 
considered "war heroes". Winston Churchill decide to carry on fighting against the 
Nazis even though he knew this would mean loosing a terrible amount of lives in an 
effort that, at the time seemed damn near impossible. Oliver Cromwell fought against 
the king because Charles II was a ruthless authoritarian absolutist, who thought he was a 
little god on earth, and fought for the liberties of England. These are two cases I would 
be prepared to understand, as many others.

But what could be said about something like the recent invasion of Iraq?
Do people really believe it was a legitimate invasion of a country that apparently had 
"weapons of mass destruction" and that its leader Saddam Hussein was prepared to use 
at any moment?
Saddam Hussein is considered one of the worst war criminals in history, being next to 
some of the worst in our history, such as Stalin in Russia & Hitler in Europe. It is said 
that he has killed over 2.5 million Iraqis in all the time he has been ruling, and I sadly 
expect this is true. Saddam Hussein is more than worthy to carry the title of war 
criminal as he has subdued those who oppose him for decades. 
But what of a country that invades Iraq not with the purpose of freeing the Iraqi people, 
but to rid this country of the "weapons of mass destruction" it is supposed to have and 
by doing this breaking dozens of rules made for a very good reason by the United 
Nations, and killing over 200.000 Iraqi citizens as well. The aftermath of this war is still 
alive in the country after nearly two years. There is at leas 50 people dead a day because 
of the terrible situation that the country has been left after the invasion.
And the worst thing about all this is that this invasion wasn't developed by another 
country with another dictator on power. It was done by two "democratic" countries.
The United Kingdom & the United States of America are two nations that have always 
considered themselves as lands of liberty & democracy, but we see these two nations 
invading and tearing apart a country for one reason: oil. I don't care what future 
historians will say about the Invasion of Iraq, as most probably its history will be 
written by the victors, in this case the two nations mentioned above; this invasion was 
an illegal one, the United Nations worked against it and hundreds of countries 
demonstrated their disgust towards this invasion; but even so, the UK and the USA still 
went on with it.

My conclusion is that it is very difficult to classify with absolute objectiveness who is a 
war hero and who is not, as always there are victors and losers to every war; but I do 
believe that NOBODY should carry the title of war heroes, as war is something to be 
ashamed of, never proud.