
Transvestism is probably as old as the oldest profession in the world.  Either to 
make fun of the opposite sex, make people laugh or wishing to look like a man 
or a woman, transvestism has been and still is, present in nearly every society. 
In ancient Egypt, Cleopatra dressed like a man in the first years of her reign 
<R>, because men, although pharaohs (be them men or 
women) where all considered gods on earth, women were still considered 
inferior to men, so Cleopatra dressed like a man to show she was just as much a 
god as any pharaoh man before her.  But many times transvestism goes much 
further than all those reasons, and in many occasions the wish to look like either 
a man or a woman is a cry for help, or a blunt way of saying that they are not 
happy with the sex they were born with. In this essay I intend to look at the two 
main views about transvestism, fore and against, and also give a short account 
about transvestism in past and recent times. 

Transvestism, be for or against it, is very much alive in our present society. As I 
have stated before in the introduction, some of the earliest accounts of 
transvestism date back to ancient Egyptian times, and since then, many other 
accounts can be found throughout history. Some of the frescos in the destroyed 
city of Pompey, show many paintings of both homosexual behaviour and of 
transvestism in the heart of the Old Roman Empire <R>. But transvestism does not always have to 
be associated to homosexuality. It is a common mistake in today's world to 
assume that if you cross-dress, you are obviously a homosexual. The first 
person to put into writing what transvestism was, was Magnus Hirschfeld, a 
German physician and sexologist. He created the word out of the Latin, trans, 
meaning across; and vestere, to dress or to wear, in 1915 <R>. 
Today his works are all dated, as the word was also used to refer to those who 
were homosexual or asexual; nowadays we refer to a transvestite as someone 
who dresses in the opposite sex. This was pointed out during the Stonewall 
riots of 1969, where the homosexual and lesbian groups separated and 
demonstrated that transvestism and homosexuality didn't necessarily go 
together <R>. I asked my grandmother what she thought 
about transvestism and she immediately went into a flux, insulting attacking 
and pointing out how wrong it was to do so; but after she had simmered down, 
I reminded her of a certain day we spent in Blackpool, in the theatre at the pier, 
watching Dick Whittington. The leading male role was played by a woman, and 
the female leading role was a man. This of course is an old tradition, well 
known to all English people, but as a young Spanish boy I found this very 
unnerving. My grandmother stated that that was completely different, as the 
pantomime transvestism was part of the English Music Hall Tradition. After 
having seen some examples of transvestism in History, I will now give an 
account of the two main points about the matter.

<Q>. This is the introduction 
of a "closet transvestite" as he calls himself, he doesn't say what his real name 
is, maybe because of shame, or maybe because of fear of retribution, but we can 
clearly see, by reading further down, that he does not believe he is ill or mad. In 
this section of the essay I wish to give an account of those who favour or simply 
approve transvestites. <Q>. 
This is another statement by the same person. All those that favour transvestism 
seem to have this point in common; they find that dressing up in the opposite 
sex's clothes is both exiting and thrilling. They confess they get a very big thrill 
when putting on women's clothes, because they feel dirty, sexy, provocative, 
and in general terms, free to be someone they are not or someone they would 
like to be. I have a friend who is gay, and after asking him what he thought 
about transvestism he admitted he wasn't all that keen on the matter. He 
believed that <Q>. On the other 
hand, another friend of mine, well known for his outrageous costume putting 
tradition, told me once that <Q>. What he meant by this, he explained, is that transvestism was a very 
important way of expressing yourself as a homosexual, that this helped you to 
liberate your feelings and even sometimes, be your true self. I myself have 
dressed up as a woman in more than one party, and far from feeling shame; I 
found it was a lot of fun. What is more, after having dressed as a woman, I have 
never felt the slightest homosexual inclination, be it because I am heterosexual 
or because I haven't yet found the right boy...   

On the other side of the discussion, we have those who believe that 
transvestism is wrong. The main group of opposition nowadays against 
transvestism, are religious associations and conservative political parties. Most 
of the actual religions see transvestism completely linked to homosexuality, 
stating that one usually happens after the other. Catholic representatives of the 
Spanish church state that <Q>. They insist that 
transvestism goes against the Law of God, because God created man to be a 
man and a woman to be a woman, a man can never be a woman because this 
would end the reproduction purpose mankind was made for, and so man 
shouldn't dress like a woman. In the Muslim tradition, transvestism is seen as a 
very dangerous mental illness, and many countries under Muslim religion have 
seen cases of applying the death penalty to people who, just by dressing like a 
woman, demonstrate they are homosexual and therefore sinners.  We also find 
those who don't refer to holy books to demonstrate that transvestism is wrong. 
The "Plataforma de Padres y Madres" in Spain, state that transvestism is 
something to be very ashamed of, as it is something unnatural and very 
dangerous for younger people. They state that he who dresses like a woman is 
giving a very bad and wrong example to youngsters, because they are 
confusing them and showing them a world of "vice and twisted sexual 
appearance".

My conclusion is that, personally speaking, I see no danger in transvestism.
What is more, history has demonstrated that transvestism is something that has 
been around and accepted into different aspect of society (such as theatre, as we 
saw above), and that   no real harm comes from wanting to dress up as a 
woman or a man. But I do believe children should be educated to understand 
what it's all about, and teach both young and adults, to differ between 
homosexuality and transvestism, and more importantly, to respect both things.   