 
Recent studies indicate that more than a third of European people have 
taken drugs in their lifetime,mainly cannabis,although it is 
illegal.Nowadays, the possibility of legalising soft drugs has created 
a lot of controversy,but the only country where the consumption of 
soft drugs is legal is Holland,where for nearly twenty years the 
selling,possession and consumption of cannabis products up to an 
amount of 5 grams have not been punished,nevertheless,driving under 
the influence of drugs is forbidden, as is being under their 
influences in public.In this essay, I intend to argue why soft drugs 
should, in my view, be legalized,according to some restrictions.  

Personally speaking, I believe that the legalisation of soft drugs 
should be done with some kind of  limits.The consumption of these 
drugs should be forbidden for people under 18 years old.However, it 
could be said that the "consumption age" only encourages teenagers to 
view it as a sign of adulthood and should be abolished since it could 
appear specially attractive to those who wish to be seen as adults, 
but I strongly feel that teenagers require some kind of limits until 
they are on age, when it is supposed that they will be responsible 
enough to have clear ideas about drugs.  
 
Another restriction would be that the Government controls the selling 
of soft drugs.The sensible option is to legalise it and make it 
available through recognized establishments as in Holland, and it 
should control also the amount of such drugs since the limit for 
"personal use" is 5 grams of cannabis products, which are the most 
common, per person. It must be said that is very difficult to control 
the drugs traffic market because an illegal one would quickly emerge, 
in which dealers supply dangerous substandard chemical products in 
drugs, but I think that if the Government controls the consumption of 
soft drugs,  their traffic would suffer an "amputation" of one part of 
its business which is benefitial to our society. Moreover, I believe 
that it is better if soft drugs, like cannabis, are regulated by the 
Government to avoid problems with the drugs being contaminated with 
things like rat poison.  
 
Cannabis is less harmfull than other legal drugs. More people die each 
year from traffic accidents related to alcohol abuse. Nevertheless, 
there has not been one documented death caused exclusively by 
marijuana consumption. Million of people have died due to alcohol and 
tobacco abuse, but alcohol and cigarettes remain legal whereas 
marijuana, according to laws, cannot even be prescribed by a doctor to 
combat nausea in chemotherapy patients. It could be argue that for 
those with a  medical problem, there are other safer treatments, which 
are not illegal, that would be better for them,but in my opion, 
cannabis is  harmless compared to alcohol and tobacco, the two biggest 
killer drugs used in the world, and there is a significant evidence 
that it can be used beneficially to treat medical conditions like 
chronic arthritis and stress relief.  

I personally believe that the legalisation of soft drugs involves that 
the traffic of all kinds of drugs would suffer a dicrease. If drugs 
were legalised, dealers would not control this market anymore, and it 
is the only way to cut out the criminals who are making money 
smuggling and dealing drugs. It must be said that perhaps, the traffic 
of other types of drugs would be stronger just because dealers would 
not earn lots of money with soft drugs. However, I would argue that 
this is the only way that criminals, who profit from other addictions, 
will be stopped, otherwise, the opportunity to make a lot of money for 
doing this will continue to be exploited by the less scrupulous 
members of our society.  
 
Not only  the prohibition of any substance does not seem to work, as I 
see it, it can also increases its appeal to young people. From my 
point of view, if soft drugs were legalised the trade would not be 
interesting anymore. Any legalisation of soft drugs must be 
accompained by a very clear educational campaign, as we try to educate 
people about drinking and smoking. This is the case of Holland, where 
people are educated about drugs and their effects. The Dutch system 
has been shown to work and Holland has one of the lowest hard drug 
abuse rates in Europe. The Netherlands, where the use of cannabis is 
legal, has a lower level of users per head of the population than this 
country. Moreover, the average age of hard drug users is increasing by 
about one year every year, suggesting that the drug abuse population 
is simply getting older. It must be said that it may also has the 
effect of sending a message to young people that the use of soft drugs 
is acceptable, but from my poiny of view, most youngsters know that 
the consumption of drugs can affect their behaviour, so they would not 
want to try them.  
Many people think that if soft drugs are legalised, then hard drugs, 
such as heroine and cocaine will become more widely used, and that 
using soft drugs leads people to use harder drugs. If this were true 
then, how alcohol and tobacco users have not rapidly progressed to 
heroine and cocaine? I think the answer is because they are legal and 
to buy them you do not come into contact with dealers. They have much 
to gain by hooking their clients on harder and more addictive drugs 
and so, naturally, will persuade cannabis users to try them. 
Legalising cannabis would reduced transference from soft to hard drugs 
and marginalise the dealers. It could be said that it is necessary to 
draw a line somewhere and that we should not relax on our approach to 
drugs. However, I strongly feel that the line has to be drawn between 
hard drugs: cocaine, heroine and ecstasy and soft drugs such as 
cannabis products: hashish and marijuana, in order to separate the 
soft drugs market from the hard one, so that cannabis users are less 
likely to come into contact with hard drugs.  
 
In conclusion, I personally believe that the legalisation of soft 
drugs could be a good idea but if there is some kind of control and 
restrictions. Most illegal drugs, such as cannabis products, are 
actually less harmfull than the legal ones, since alcohol and tobacco 
are both associated with high rates of mortality worldwide. 
Furthermore, cannabis has benefitial effects on medicine and there are 
a lot of people whose lifes are made bearable by this substance.It has 
been shown that prohibition does not work, just because drugs are not 
a modern problem, mankind has been using them for thousands of years. 
Another point is that the legalisation is the only way to take drugs 
away from criminal activity.If  purity, quality and quantity would be 
uniformed and if prices were kept low the multi-million illegal drugs 
market would collapse overnigth.
