

According to Collins Cobuild dictionary <R> <Q> and it 
contains nicotine which is addictive. In reference to this, <Q> <R>. The age at which youngsters start smoking 
is increasing from year to year and although, tobacco is one of the biggest killer drugs, 
it remains legal. In relation with this topic many people argue that smoking should be 
banned because tobacco is the only legal product which, in addition to alcohol, kills. 
However, there are those who think that <Q> <R>. In 
this essay, I am going to present differents points about smoking regulations and 
evaluate them.


There are many arguments against a smoking ban. Some people claim that <Q> <R>. Cigarettes 
give smokers a good deal of pleasure much of the time because nicotine is a chemical 
that causes a good feeling, but that feeling only lasts for a while. Moreover, as it is 
addictive, if you start to use nicotine, your body and mind will become so used to it that 
you will need to have it just to feel good and I personally believe that there are other 
harmless things to relax people such as lime flower infusions which would be safer for 
them. In addition, <Q> <R>.


There are other arguments in favour of smoking since <Q> <R> since it is another way of 
collecting taxes. A pack of cigarettes costs two euros, on average, that means, even if 
you buy just one pack a week, you will spend ninety euros in a year. Some people 
smoke a pack a day, which adds up to nearly five hundred euros so it is an expensive 
habit. Furthermore, the price of tobacco has been increased in the last year. In my 
opnion this argument is quite strong because it seems that  the government accepts 
tobacco and its consumption, leading to the contradictory believe that what the 
government really wants is that people smoke so that it can collect more money with 
the taxes on tobacco, although there are those who think that <Q> <R>.


Another argument  in favour would be that if we eliminate smoking, many people in the 
tobacco industry will be out of jobs, and that will create many social problems. I believe 
that this is one of the most irrefutable arguments related to this topic because it is true 
that while the reduction in the use of tobacco is an improvement in public health, there 
would be economic losses that would affect many sectors. Many countries may reject 
measures against the use of tobacco because of economic problems, especially if 
tobacco is an important source of income. Nevertheless, in my opinion it is a 
government's responsability to take all the necessary measures to encourage people 
to stop smoking since the nicotine and other poisonous chemicals in tobacco cause 
lots of diseases, like heart problems and some kinds of cancer.


Smoking is not only harmful to the smoker but also results in the deaths of non-
smokers <Q> <R>. One 
possible solution to this would be forbidding smoking in public spaces. This prohibition 
can significantly reduce the number of people exposed to second-hand smoke and, in 
addition, can reduce smokers' daily cigarettes consumption. The common complaints 
by owners of public spaces, such as hotels and restaurants, would be based on the 
argument that this measure wold result in a loss of customers. However, I think that if 
governments introduce this regulation, the negative impact of a loss of clientele would 
occur only in the first phase because people would adapt to the new situation. Another 
possibility is the design of specific spaces for smokers. The separation of smokers from 
non-smokers should be effective so as to create barriers that prevent non-smokers 
from inhaling tobacco smoke. In my opinion, this argument is quite convincing in order 
to make some smoking regulations since <Q> <R>.


Another possible regulation related to smoking would be to restrict or simply forbid any 
publicity for the product. I personally believe that it would be a good idea, above all, if 
the governments eliminate publicity in those environments that affect young people, 
since according to Plant (1992: 1), <Q> which 
means that adolescents are likely to take up the smoking habit because  they are 
supposed to be no mature enough to have clear ideas about drugs and their risks.


Some people might claim that another regulatory measure would be to put higher taxes 
on cigarettes. An increase in the price of tobacco can be a motivation to quit smoking.  
However, I strongly believe that this policy has many flaws because, firstly, smokers 
would accept a rise in the price of tobacco in the same way that people get used to 
other taxes or to the rise in the cost of living, and secondly, when prices go up, 
smokers tend to look for cheaper brands of lower quality that probably also have a 
greater risk to their health.


In regard to taking action to reduce the consumption of tobacco, one of the possible 
measures would be to educate smokers to smoke "better". These efforts should be 
directed at inhibiting the inhalation of smoke as much as possible, at not smoking the 
butts of cigarettes (since the toxicity of smoke increases towards the end of the 
cigarette) and at adopting preferences for brands with lower nicotine. In my opinion, 
this regulation would be quite good in order to reduce the health effects of tobacco use 
on the population, although this type of measures do not reduce the number of 
smokers and moreover, it may give the impression that smoking is not intrinsically a 
bad habit, since smokers are told how to smoke best.


In conclusion, smoking regulations by different governments are slow and not 
sufficiently effective but they are nevertheless, constant. However, I think that we 
should keep in mind the difference between active smokers and pasive smokers. All 
the measures that would help someone to stop smoking, should be directed at the 
smoker, but the passive smoker should be given every possible argument to support 
his right no to inhale tobacco smoke and to defend the right to enjoy the use of smoke-
free environments.
 
 
 
 


