       
       Sex between adults is already quite a controversial issue in the United States, 
where a puritan morality revival goes around the country. But sex involving an adult 
and a minor, even though consented, is not only a controversial issue, but also a 
punishable behaviour in the USA. Moreover, an element that adds complexity to the 
matter is the fact that the age of consent established by law varies significantly from one 
state to another. In this way, there are cases in which a couple of a teenager and 
someone older than 18, can happily get married in one state and, at the same time, the 
adult may be charged with rape in another. 
       
       One of the most recent cases that exemplifies this controversy is the case of a 
22-year-old man, Matthew Koso, from Nebraska, who got married with his pregnant 13-
year-old girlfriend in Kansas, with the consent of the girl's parents. In Kansas, law 
allows underage people to marry with parental consent, whereas Nebraska law prohibits 
marriage under age 17, regardless of parental consent <R>. Now, Koso 
awaits trial this month since Nebraska Attorney General has charged him with first-
degree sexual assault, which carries a penalty of up to 50 years in prison. This decision 
has been highly controversial, since public opinion was, for the most part, in favour of 
the father-to-be.  So, for the couple, their family and the majority of public opinion in 
Nebraska, it is love but, for others, including the state, it is rape <R>. This 
essay intends to review and analyse different viewpoints regarding the consensual 
sexual relations between adults and minors, focusing mainly on the USA.
       
       To begin with, the mainstream view in the USA is that any sexual relation 
between minors and adults is immoral and, consequently, is considered as child sexual 
abuse, regardless of the minor's consent. The main arguments proposed by their 
opponents are children's innocence and lack of experience, which would place them in 
an inferior and weaker position than adults, with the danger of being deceived or 
manipulated by dishonest adults. In addition, another argument against minors engaging 
sexual relations with adults is their lack of psychological and emotional development, 
which would prevent them from either give their consent or from being able to discern 
the consequences that kind of relation would bring about <R>. 
These two arguments appear as very solid ones, since it could be argued that they are 
the same arguments that justify the existence of an age of majority, an age which hardly 
any adult questions.
       
       In addition, the legal term "statutory rape" is used in USA with the aim of 
protecting minors, considering that people under a certain age are unable to give 
consent. Therefore, the state considers any sexual contact with minors as equivalent to 
rape, without taking into account the minor's consent. The age of consent is usually 16, 
even though, in the case of the United States, it varies substantially from one state to 
another, for instance, while in Iowa, Missouri and South Carolina the age of consent is 
14, in states like Arizona, California, Utah or Wisconsin, it is 18 <R>.
       
        However, this wide variety on the proper age of consent, besides the different 
legal definitions of statutory rape -some states make exceptions when the older person 
is also young or of similar age, or if he or she marries the minor before having sex or 
before being charged with the offence- may lead, in some cases, to disturbing and 
controversial situations, like Koso's example. In addition, if in traditional rape cases, 
police and prosecutors must prove the victim was not a willing participant, in the case 
of a younger than 16 and someone older than 18 who have a consensual relationship, 
there is no need of evidence: the relationship is simply against law. This situation 
appears, in the contex of a democratic society, as very unfair. Furthermore, in some 
states, like Nebraska, it does not matter if the adult makes an honest mistake with the 
minors' age or even if the minor lies about their age, these elements can not be used as a 
defence <R>.
       
       As regards to the medical community, the main opinion is opposed to this sort of 
relationships on the basis of the harmful effects this kind of relations cause in a high 
percentage of the cases. A wide range of psychological, emotional, physical and social 
effects has been attributed to adult-minor sexual relations <R>. 
Nevertheless, scientific community acknowledges that there is not yet research available 
analysing and comparing adult-minor sexual relations in cases in which the minor is 
willing and in those in which he is unwilling. Therefore, scientific opinion is 
exclusively based on cases of child sexual abuse, that is, on non-consensual sexual 
relations, since either consensual or non-consensual sexual relations are forbidden by 
law <R>.
       
       On the other hand, childlove movement activists claim that minors can consent 
to sex with adults. They support their claim in the fact that ages of consent are legal 
definitions, therefore, <Q> since there is not always a 
correlation between biological and legal maturity. Moreover, they argue that 
adolescence was regarded as the "threshold of adulthood" in other cultures, such as the 
Greek civilization, and that it is the biological stage which indicates the human body's 
sexual maturity <R>. In addition, another argument they give is 
that sex is a part of growing up for children and teenagers and that consensual 
encounters with adults are not necessarily traumatic for minors, on the contrary, they 
claim that one of the best ways to be initiated into sex is by a more experienced person.
       
       The main problem with childlovers' defence of minors' capability of consent is 
their ambiguity in establishing a clear distinction within minors, between prepubescents 
and teenagers. It seems that some people could accept that a 13-year-old girl may be 
able to give her consent, as public opinion, for the most part, appears to acknowledge in 
the case of Koso. Yet, it is rather improbable that a reasonable number of people could 
accept a 7-year-old girl as capable of giving consent. Furthermore, the argument that 
there should not be an age of consent because some people may achieve maturity 
before, lacks strength because, the fact that a few teenagers are mature before getting at 
the established ages of consent, can not justify their uselessness, since it would be like 
arguing that because law sometimes fails in the application of justice, society should get 
rid of it. 
 
       In this way, some psychiatrists, like Gerald Roelofs or Frans Gieles, have 
suggested a series of ethical guidelines for relationships between adults and minors that 
could be used by the legal system. These guidelines could be summarised in the 
following four: <Q> <R>.

         Although this attempt of establishing an ethical and legal frame for adult-
minor sexual relations, may appeal to some people, it also gives rise to several 
problems. First, it seems very difficult to prove the minor's freedom or his taking the 
initiative on engaging in a sexual relation with an adult. Second, it could well be argued 
that, in the possible case of crooked parents, this ethical frame could lead to children's 
sexual exploitation, since without a legal age of consent, minors' protection from sexual 
abuse would be completely dependent on their parents' responsibility.     

	Finally, after having analysed the social, legal and scientific, besides childlove 
movement's, approach to consensual sexual relations between adults and minors, it 
seems that the crucial point in the debate is the possible imbalance, in some cases, 
between some minors' biological and legal ages of consent. Despite childlove 
movement's claims to abolish the ages of consent, it appears reasonable to argue that, in 
order to avoid potential situations of minor's sexual abuse, the age of consent should be 
maintained. 

       Moreover, it seems logical to argue that one thing is sexual maturity, concerning 
the physical sexual development and, another very different, psychological or emotional 
maturity, which the overwhelmingly majority of people achieve at a later stage, if any. 
However, for the sake of justice, it seems logical to take into account the possible 
injustices derived from the fact that not all humans become mature at the same age, that 
is, to recognize that there may be exceptions to the norm, which should not be punished. 
In addition, a more homogeneous legislation could prevent disturbing and controversial 
cases such as Koso's case.  
         
         In conclusion, this essay has tried to present and discuss the main opinions 
concerning consensual sexual relations between adults and minors. On the one hand, 
opponents base their position mainly on minors' inability to consent, considering 
underage people as not fully mentally developed. This viewpoint is also adopted by the 
state, which under the term "statutory rape" includes both consensual and non-
consensual relations. However, medical community admits that there is still not 
scientific evidence that links consensual sexual relations with harmful effects for 
minors.
         
          On the other hand, the main claims of those who defend adult-minor 
relationships are that minors can consent and that consensual sexual relations with 
adults can be a good and pleasant way to begin sexual life for minors. In addition, trying 
to avoid social and legal rejection to this kind of relationships, several guidelines have 
been proposed, in order to provide an ethical and legal framework, guidelines that seem 
to raise even more problems than they try to avoid. The real problem that seems to 
underlie this controversial issue is that, the fact that there are several exceptions to the 
established law -or rather, to the different laws, what adds even more complexity to the 
matter- is used to question a legislation which, in the majority of cases, fits with the 
social norm.  
         
