       After large-scale terrorist attacks such as those in New York, Madrid, and 
recently in London and with the permanent terrorist threat to any "western enemy", the 
main concern for most democratic governments is how to forestall a new terrorist 
outrage. Under these circumstances, a growing number of people, especially in USA, 
openly justifies and approves any measure that could prevent an impending catastrophe, 
for instance, the use of torture on detainees <R>. Furthermore, Alan 
Dershowitz, a professor of law at Harvard and one of America's most distinguished 
advocates of civil liberties, has come to the conclusion that judicial torture is not 
prohibited by the US Constitution <R>. On the other hand, the American 
Senate defied the White House this month and voted to set new limits on interrogating 
detainees in Iraq and elsewhere, arguing Congress' growing concerns about reports of 
abuse of suspected terrorists and others in military custody (Babington & Murray, 
2005). In this essay I will try to argue why I believe that the application of torture          
-physical or mental- on detainees, cannot and should not be justified or adopted by 
democratic countries in their fight against terrorism.
       
       To begin with, I strongly believe that in democratic countries a good goal, such 
as preventing terrorist attacks, cannot justify the use of any means available, like the use 
of torture, in order to achieve it. If a democratic country does apply the same methods 
than terrorists use, it seems to me that the clear line that separates them becomes 
blurred, undermining the basic principles that sustain democracy, such as the protection 
and defence of human rights and liberties. Moreover, it is rather paradoxical that 
western countries, like USA, that have long upheld the international ban on torture and 
have publicly criticized other governments, like Iraqi regime, for torturing its 
opponents, are now considering the possibility of using this once reprobable measure 
<R>. Indeed, the practice is banned by one convention after another, 
beggining with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, including the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the Convention against Torture and 
Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CAT), adopted by UN 
General Assembly in 1984 and ratified by 129 countries, including USA and, finally, 
Geneva Conventions, articles 3 & 4 <R>. Nevertheless, some people consider that to 
deny the use of interrogational torture in fighting against terrorism may be as immoral 
as it is to permit it since, in true catastrophic cases, such as ticking time bomb scenarios, 
the failure to use this kind of measures may result in the death of innocent people. To 
put it in other words, they claim that upholding the rights of the suspect will negate the 
rights, including the very fundamental right to life, of innocent victims <R>. 
       
       Of course, this appears as a very strong argument since when there is a clash 
between different rights, the most elemental right to life must under all circumstances 
prevail. However, I personally doubt the effectiveness of highly coercive interrogations 
as a useful method for eliciting truthful and timely information in preventing massacres.
It seems to me that a person who is willing to die in the name of their ideas, someone 
capable of carrying a bomb attached to his body and making it explode in a bus, 
crowded of innocent people, or someone who supports ardently an organization capable 
of doing it, will not with all probability betray his cause merely because he is exposed to 
tough interrogation techniques. Moreover, I consider it is realistic to expect that 
operatives will be given only highly compartmentalized information so that if captured 
they may not be able to reveal the entire plot <R>. If we take a look at 
those countries which used some of these coercive techniques in their fight against 
terrorism, like Britain's experience confronting terrorism in Northern Ireland, we can 
see that the results were a complete failure. According to Tom Parker, a fellow at 
Brown University and a counter-terrorist investigator in Great Britain for six years, in 
the first eight months of 1971, 27 people were killed as a result of terrorist violence in 
Northern Ireland. It led to British government adopting measures such as "interrogation 
in depth", a euphemistic instance of highly coercive interrogation. The immediate 
consequences were that in the four remaining months of 1971, 147 people were killed as 
a result of terrorist action; 467 were killed in 1972. The number of terrorist bombings in 
the province increased dramatically from around 150 in 1970 to 1,382 in 1972 
<R>. This is a fairly obvious example that illustrates their ineffectiveness
       
       Moreover, I personally feel that not only does the approval of highly coercive 
interrogations raise reasonable and serious doubts for its anchorage within a democratic 
system and its real effectiveness but also it sets out many risks. One of the most obvious 
is that it may lead to abuse. If law allows police the possibility of using some tough 
interrogation techniques, things may get out of hand. The dynamic of physical coercion 
may push interrogators to greater and greater excesses as they encounter resistance or 
are placed under pressure to produce results. Recent examples such as Abu Ghraib or 
Guantanamo can illustrate this danger. Secondly, I would say that terrorists' 
radicalization is another serious peril it may involve, since it may increase not only the 
quantity but also the scale of cruelty and brutality of terrorist attacks, like the example 
of United Kingdom shows. Furthermore, the possibility of legalizing torture in 
interrogations will result, in my view, in providing more excuses to support Bin Laden's 
pretended war against "western's hostility towards Islam" and, therefore, helping 
indirectly in their recruiting more people willing to die in their fight against the 
"western enemy" <R>.
        Nevertheless, some of those who advocate the use of highly coercive 
interrogations, put limits on it in order to attempt to avoid these dangers. For instance, 
Harvard Law professor Alan Dershowitz, who advocates the constitutionality of the use 
of torture, defends it only <Q> <R>. However, I would 
maintain that even if torture were allowed under the most extreme conditions, it would 
be difficult to confine it to those rare occasions as experience shows. Israel, for 
example, tried to limit the use of physical coercion to extreme cases, but its security 
forces have ended up using such methods far more widely than was initially foreseen 
<R>. Moreover, recent examples such as Abu Graib or Guantanamo, 
which constitute a flagrant violation of Geneva Convention <R>, 
show that no matter how restrictive the regulation of torture would be, the risks of its 
abuse are intrinsic to its use. 
                                            
So then, in this essay I have tried to show why I don't consider the use of torture on 
detainees as a morally or legally justifiable means for democratic countries to fight 
against terrorism, since using the same criminal methods than terrorists do, methods that 
western countries and international law have always condemned and proscribed, 
democracy would lose its essence. Moreover, as past experience shows, coercive 
interrogations are not an effective measure and, worst of all, they may involve 
dangerous risks such as its abuse, radicalization of terrorist actions, and providing 
terrorists with more arguments for their recruitment of more people. Granted terrorism 
is a very complex issue, which cannot be solved overnight but, in my opinion, 
democratic countries should be able to devise other solutions to solve this problem, 
sticking to law. Otherwise, as US senator McCain pointed out, <Q> <R>.

     
