

	Nowadays, the city of Juárez, on the Mexican border with the USA, appears to 
be unfortunately associated with the hundreds of women's disappearances and brutal 
killings that have taken place there. Since 1993, it is estimated that 410 women have 
been murdered following the sinister pattern rape-torture-murder, crimes that, for the 
most part, remain unsolved. The fact that such a large number of heinous crimes is still 
a mystery seems to be enough reason for concern but, if the circumstances that have 
surrounded the investigation and application of justice are examined, besides 
authorities' attitude of blaming victims and their families, concern grows to distress and 
rage. So, this essay will try to shed some light on the dissapearance and violent death of 
hundreds of women in the city of Juarez, reviewing the different theories provided for 
clarification, showing my personal opinion about the matter.

	To begin with, it seems that local authorities' first reaction was to blame the 
serial sex killings on the victims. In this way, their inmediate response to these brutal  
crimes would have been to question the victims' provocative apparel -their use of 
makeup or miniskirts-, their immoral behaviour -hanging out in bars, interacting with 
men as equals-, or doubting their real laboral activity, suggesting their working as 
prostitutes or drug-dealers <R>.

      As Arturo González Rascón, the attorney general of the state of Chihuahua, 
where Juarez is situated, pointed out: <Q> <R>. Moreover, a report by 
the attorney general's office put the blame on parents for raising daughters whose 
<Q> <R>.
      
      This official attitude of either blaming victims' parents or, even worst, victims 
themselves, instead of trying to find the real culprits, may, in my opinion,  be 
considered as very unfair and irresponsible, among other things. Obviously, this wrong 
and simplistic approach would lead, and, in fact, has led to many negative consequences 
such as failing, on the one hand, in preventing more cruel slayings, and, on the other, in 
the aplication of justice, with all the harmful effects it involves for victims' relatives. 
Moreover, I strongly believe that this kind of attitude only encourages more killings 
since the message that authorities seem to convey is, not only, that these women have 
found what they deserve, but also that anyone willing to comit such a savage crime can 
do it because no opposition will be found.
      
 	Another explanation that has been put forward is the always appealing theory of 
the serial killer. In this way, one of the first suspects to be condemned and imprisoned 
was the Egyptian Sharif Abdul Latif Sharif. A superficial investigation of his past 
revealed a man of great scientific genius as well as a rapist and possible serial killer, 
who accumulated sexual battery convictions in the USA, his former place of residence. 
According to Mexican police, he is supposed to have confessed five killings, something 
that, since then, he has always denied. In 1996, a judge dismissed six murder charges 
against him but prosecutors charged him again with new rapes and murders, in an 
attempt to use him as a scapegoat <R>. Finally, in 1999, Sharif was only convicted of rape and murder of an 18-
year-old woman and sentenced to 30 years in prison <R>.

      Furthermore, the fortunate case of a 14-year-old girl who was raped, strangled 
and abandoned in the desert, as if she were dead, has added more complexity to the 
issue. The young girl, Nancy, against all probability, managed to survive and, therefore, 
was able to tell the police the identity of her assailant. It was the bus driver who had 
picked her up, in front of the factory where she worked, the one responsible for her 
sexual attack and frustrated killing <R>.

	Consequently, Jesus Manuel Guardado Marquez, the bus driver, was accused of 
rape and attempted murder. But he claimed that he was innocent and blamed the attack 
on a group of fellow bus drivers. Thus, five bus drivers were arrested and charged with 
several murders and rapes. What makes things worst is the fact that bus drivers allege to 
be Shariff's employees, who, according to them, had contracted them from jail to kill 
two women a month, with the aim of manufacturing evidence to support his innocence. 
Nonetheless, the bus drivers were charged with 20 murders, after an alleged confession 
which they later on have denied <R>
      
      
      After this frustrated attempt to put all the blame on Shariff, a group of FBI 
specialists went to Juarez with the aim of joining the investigation. Their week of 
investigation ended with the conclusion that no serial killer could be made responsible 
for the crimes. A statement issued by the FBI in El Paso said: <Q> <R>.
      
      In my view, all those attempts to find an only murderer -Shariff-, or a gang of 
murderers -the bus drivers-, to account for all the killings appears to be highly artificial 
and convenient for both local authorities and system of justice, that have revealed 
corrupt, since many evidences proved that torture was applied on detainees so that they 
admitted as much crimes as possible <R>. Furthermore, the fact that after all these incarcerations 
took place, more dissapearances and killings have taken place seem to invalidate this 
trial.
      
	Besides this, among the various explanations given by the Mexican authorities, 
one of the most appealing has been the organ trafficking theory, which came up with the 
testimony of one suspect, Miguel Angel Vázquez Villegas, who admitted having moved 
from the bathroom of a house, in a wealthy Juarez suburb, and got rid of three women's 
bodies, which were "hollowed out" with their organs removed. Villegas was condemned 
but this line of investigation revealed fruitless and was dismissed, although some people 
advocate it.

      In relation to this, I would not consider this theory as a plausible one for various 
reasons. It seems to me that in order to perform such a delicate activity, much more 
requisites are needed than a mere bathroom, for instance, medical equipment and 
specialists to extract, preserve and transport organs. However, neither of these elements 
have been found nor physical evidence on the victim's bodies which, to my mind, 
would rule out this possibility.  
	
      In this way, women from Juarez, who started organizing in 1996 with the aim of 
putting an end to the brutal carnage, appear to link authorities' and justice system's 
neglect and sloppiness with the 3 prominent features of all the violently killed women, 
that is, their poverty, their youth and their female condition. In this way, they label these 
women's serial killings as "femicides", which points at the gender issue as the heart of 
the matter. In addition, feminist activists in Juarez seem to put much importance on the 
dramatic social changes that have taken place there, as a result of the transition from an 
agricultural to an industrially-based economy. As the feminist pioneer Esther Chávez 
points out: <Q> <R>.
	In my opinion, women organizations' analysis and explanation of these heinous 
crimes seem to be the most reasonable for various reasons. First, violence against 
women has always been around in Juarez, as in the rest of Mexico, but if, up to 1993, 
the rate of murdered women was an average of 3 a year, by that bloody date, it rised 
suddenly to three a month <R>. In my view, these figures 
clearly show a point of inflection which has to have a deeper explanation than those 
presented so far.

      Moreover, the scale of cruelty and brutality of these crimes, which goes beyond 
the common level of violence against females in the area, appears to me to suggest that 
we witness an unprecedented phenomenon in Juarez. At this point, we should take into 
account that, in 1994, Mexico signed an economic agreement with the USA, known as 
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which resulted in dozens of US 
companies setting up their assembly plants in Mexican land in order to take benefit, on 
the one hand, from cheap local labor force and, on the other, from Mexican loose 
environmental legislation <R>. For a place like Juarez, 
exactly on the border with USA, this has brought about a total change, because of all the 
economic and social implications it involves. 

	Thus, women in Juarez have incorporated to the laboral world, since the large 
majority of the factories appear to prefer female labor force for a simple reason: their 
wages are lower. It is, in my view, this novelty that brings about transcendental changes 
in the traditional patriarchal society of Juarez. Men witness women laboral integration, 
their becoming breadwinners, changes in their physical appearance, in their habits -
going out with friends and crossing the threshold of the socially forbidden bars-, in few 
words, their increasing and unstoppable independence. 

	Paradoxically, this improvement of women living conditions seems to imply 
their increasing vulnerability as well, since working under the rules of capitalism means 
doing day and night workshifts, in isolated areas -Juarez is surrounded by desert-, 
which puts these women in a risky situation. Furthermore, the fact that factories openly  
prefer to employ females than males has led to a high rate of male unemployment 
whereas women become the breadwinners. This situation would be seriously 
undermining the traditional patriarchal society, in which men were considered the axis, 
around which everything gravitated.

	Finally, this general feeling among men against women's social and economic 
promotion, which puts men in a puzzling and weaker position, might help to explain the 
unusual brutality of the crimes, besides the tendency to put the blame on the victims on 
the grounds that women provoked their attacks either with their provocative apparel or 
with their improper behaviour. It seems to me that this kind of attitude is to a large 
extent responsible, not only of the crimes themselves, but also of the lack of a real and 
effective response by any sector in society but women. That is, there have been no 
political or police measures to prevent women's savage murders or a proper  
investigation without the serious irregularities, no measures from the factories, where 
the majority of women worked, as, for instance, devising solutions to avoid their going 
home alone at night in the middle of the desert.    

	To sum up, this essay has tried to reflect the main hypothesis suggested 
regarding the brutal crimes against women in Juarez, showing my personal opinion 
about them. On the one hand, the official response in Juarez was, first, to make victims 
responsible for what they had suffered. Then, several theories were put forward, the 
most relevant ones being the possibility of a serial killer, or a gang of serial killers, and 
the organ trafficking theory. Finally, women organizations have pointed to recent 
dramatic economic and social changes in Juarez, as the key to understand what is 
happening there. As far as I am concerned, I would say that women movements seem to 
provide the most reasonable and logical explanation for those killings since only in the 
current social and economic context of Juarez, with the undermining of traditional 
patriarchal system, such brutal crimes against women and general indifference towards 
them, can be conceived.    



























