						

Cloning is not a new issue. Experiments with frogs and toads date back to the 1970s. 
And experiments involving plants and animal embryos have been performed for years. 
In the 1980s scientists began researching methods of cloning higherorder animals 
mammals in particular <R>. The accelerating success 
of their experiments has led to discussion over the possibility of human cloning. This 
discussion has revealed widespread disagreement, both within the scientific community 
and the general public, over whether human cloning research should be allowed. 
Experiments involving human beings have never been tried or thought possible, until 
"Dolly the sheep." Her birth shocked the scientific community and has spurred 
discussion about the possibility of human clones <R>. 
The defenders of cloning believe that cloning and genetic engineering will be the 
answer to most of the diseases in the future. On the other hand, the people against 
cloning view it as ' playing God '. They think cloning is unethical because people will 
lose their identities if their clones come into this world. When considering human 
cloning, it is important to think of how it could be used in society. Even though human 
cloning has been the topic of many science fiction stories and movies over the years, it 
is only recently that serious thought has been given to how this new technology could 
be used in today. There are many advantages and disadvantages of cloning and a lot of 
ethical issues related to it. In this essay I will present the different viewpoints on human 
cloning and explain why in my opinion I consider cloning should be legalized.

Cloning is the process of creating a cell, tissue line or even a complete organism from a 
single cell <R>. The concept of cloning was introduced in 
1903, and plants were the first living organisms to be cloned <R>. Human cloning is a prospect no longer left to the fantastic realm of science 
fiction novels and movies; rather it is a modern possibility. In 1997, embryologists in 
Scotland cloned the first mammal, a sheep named Dolly <R>. A human clone is a time-delayed identical twin of another person. A 
clone is not an exact replica of the original, but a much younger identical twin. As with 
identical twins, the clone and the original person will have different fingerprints. There 
are various opinion on this controversial topic. The division exists between those who 
are in favour of human cloning because they think it will benefit mankind in many 
aspects. They consider that human cloning research would enable doctors to determine 
the cause of spontaneous abortions, give oncologists an understanding of the rapid cell 
growth of cancer, allow the use of stem cells to regenerate nerve tissues, and advance 
work on aging, genetics, and medicines <R>. 
Additionally they claim that cloning humans will provide for a continuous supply of 
donor organs for patients. The organs could be cloned selectively for replacement 
organs or an entire body could be cloned and each group of necessary organs targeted 
for donation. The human body rejects matter that it sees as foreign and uses antibodies 
to attack it. Cloned organs would be a genetic match to the host individual and would 
therefore eliminate the possibility of rejection <R>. Many 
think that using the cloning technology, medical science would now be able to unlock 
the mysteries of cancer and its rapid cell growth. By making use of human clones, cells 
could be cloned and regenerated to replace damaged sections of the body. Stem cells 
could also be grown to regenerate damaged nerve tissues or muscle tissues. This process 
could be useful for many muscular diseases such as muscular 
sclerosis <R>. Scientists could use human cloning to 
understand many traits such as obesity to and see if they are really inherited. It might 
also help scientists discover cures for some diseases.
In addition supporters in favour of human cloning claim that research into cloning might 
provide medical insight that could benefit larger society. For instance, they argue that 
aside from helping infertile couples, cloning might result in spin-off technologies that 
could improve current reproductive technologies such as in vitro fertilization. Today, 1 
in 12 couples is affected by infertility <R>. With human 
cloning, couples could be guaranteed reproductive success by cloning one of the two 
partners and raising their new cloned child. Individuals would now be able to start a 
new life right from the beginning or raise an identical child after an unfortunate death. 
All this arguments seem very convincing, in my opinion human cloning will benefit 
human beings economically, physically and socially. Human cloning will stop the 
development of some deadly illnesses from which all of us can benefit. With cloning, 
infertile couples could have children. It is a fact that infertility treatments are not very 
successful. One estimate is that current infertility treatments are less than 10 percent 
successful <R>. Couples go through physically and 
emotionally painful procedures for a small chance of having children.  Many couples 
run out of time and money without successfully having children. In my opinion human 
cloning could make it possible for many  infertile couples to have children. 

On the other hand there are those supporters in favour of human therapeutic cloning as 
means of curing illnesses. Therapeutic cloning, which is often misunderstood as 
reproductive cloning, is less controversial than the latter as it does not involve the 
creating of an individual being. Instead, vital stem cells are extracted from human 
embryos, in order to generate tissues and organs for transplant. 
<R>. The goal of this process is strictly to 
harvest stem cells, resulting in the creation of "cloned organs", which can be used to 
treat heart disease, Alzheimer's, and cancer <R>. Then we  have the opinion of some that consider human cloning beneficial but 
think it should have certain restrictions. Both opponents and supporters agree that at the 
current time the technology is not safe enough to use on humans. Some fear that clones 
will have an accelerated aging process since the cell used in the cloning procedure will 
have been "exposed to a lifetime" <R>. Supporters argue that 
with additional experimentation on other mammals we can reduce the margin of error 
until it equals the current risk of miscarriage or infant death. Whereas opponents argue 
that children may suffer a diminished sense of individuality and personal autonomy. A 
cloned child may feel that their future is constrained by the life path of their gene donor. 
On the other hand supporters contend that children cloned from another person will not 
necessarily feel this way; these are merely speculations. In addition, for some infertile 
couples cloning may be the only way they can reproduce. Opponents fear that giving 
parents complete control over the genome of their children might lead to the 
objectification of children. In other words, they fear that parents and larger society 
might begin to view children as objects and not recognize that they have worth in and of 
themselves <R>. Objects derive their worth from how well 
they serve the needs of others. Opponents raise this objection when supporters argue 
that cloned children might be used to donate organs or replace a lost loved one for 
example. Some supporters argue that the potential benefits to society of cloning 
exceptional people such as scientists and intellectuals would outweigh potential harms. 
 <R>. They may also say that cloning is less radical than 
other technologies such as gene manipulation because "cloning takes a genome as it is" 
instead of manipulating it. In addition, people that support further research into human 
cloning argue that respect for personal autonomy, freedom of reproductive choice, and 
freedom of scientific inquiry should prohibit lawmakers from making such research 
illegal <R>.
All these midpoints seem very convincing and reasonable to me but are only based on 
speculations on how cloned children may feel or how society will treat them in the 
future. Those different opinions arguing in favour and against human cloning are by far 
not enough to allow authorities to ban human cloning. Human cloning in my opinion 
can cause many more benefits than harm. It is true that infertile couples will benefit the 
most but a market could be formed for infertile parents where they could purchase the 
clone of an embryo that was stolen or discarded. This is why I agree with the opponents 
in saying that restrictions should be made and that human cloning should by no means 
become a profitable business for those who want to make money from such situations. 
Human cloning has to be seen as the future to find the cure of deadly illnesses and solve 
other medical problems. Human cloning should not be tested or started unless scientifics 
are completely sure it is hundred per cent secure to be tested on human beings. And 
referring to the fact that children may feel different if being cloned there is no reason to 
this. Potential families with cloned children should not feel prejudiced. As with 
adoption, in-vitro fertilization, and use of donor sperm, how the child will react to the 
news about his/her mode of arrival in the world will depend to a large extent on how the 
parents themselves feel about this mode of reproduction. Parents and children may 
adjust to cloning far more easily than we think, just as has happened with in-vitro 
fertilization. 
Although genetic engineering and cloning may seem like a good idea, the subject 
generates many ethical and scientific concerns. There a some opponents that are against 
human cloning by no means. They argue that though the pursuit of science is noble, we 
must not lose sight of the complications of such endeavours. We have to bear in mind 
that cloning is a way of producing a genetic twin of an organism, without sexual 
reproduction <R>. Those against human cloning claim that 
cloning human beings is playing to be God. The ethical or theological issues involve 
objections to changing the fundamental nature of the human race, viewed by some as 
God's creation <R>. Outside the realm of religion there 
is great diversity of opinion over the ethical considerations posed by the possibility of 
human cloning. Society has not been able to reach a clear consensus on the morality of 
human cloning. 
Although these are secular arguments, many of them parallel religious viewpoints. In a 
society such as ours, which sharply divides church and state, laws governing human 
cloning will have to reflect ethical positions that are not based on any God or set of 
religious beliefs. Objections to research or reproductive efforts using cloned cells may 
assert that human life begins at the moment of conception by whatever means that 
occurs, is worthy of respect, and should not be used in ways that contain the potential 
for waste, destruction, or unnecessary creation of, or harm to, cells with human 
potential <R>. Members of some religious groups, 
particularly Evangelical Christianity and Roman Catholicism, believe that a soul enters 
the body at the instant of conception, and that the fertilized ovum is in fact a human 
person with full human rights. Dividing that "baby" in  half during an embryo cloning 
procedure  would interfere with God's intent. It is also human experimentation on live 
persons <R>. 
Those against human cloning claim that the many cloned zygotes that died after a few 
cell divisions would be lost human beings; and their loss is considered as serious as the 
death of a new born baby. In addition to moral and ethical issues, opponents base their 
arguments on the potential that human cloning also might result in low success rates, 
gestational problems, and long-term health concerns or shortened life spans for the 
cloned offspring <R>.  Dolly, the first mammal to be 
cloned from adult DNA, was put down by lethal injection Feb. 14, 2003. 
 <R>. Prior to her death, Dolly had been suffering from lung 
cancer and crippling arthritis. Many suggest that cloning is by far yet not enough 
developed to be tested on humans. Due to the inefficiency of animal cloning, only about 
1 or 2 viable offspring for every 100 experiments and the lack of understanding about 
reproductive cloning, many scientists and physicians strongly believe that it would be 
unethical to attempt to clone humans <R>. Not only 
do most attempts to clone mammals fail, about 30% of clones born alive are affected 
with <Q> and other debilitating conditions. Several cloned 
animals have died prematurely from infections and other complications. 
 <R>.
These arguments against human cloning seem very convincing but are based largely on 
the traditions and scriptures instead of scientific facts. Sometimes people often question 
whether or not we are trying to play the role of God. I feel that we are not trying to play 
God, merely help to improve the lives of  people. Many people say that we should not 
try to interfere with nature, that is fine if in everyday life we did not try to change our 
habitat every single second of every single day. If we try to clone organs for transplant 
patients that are in their final hour then we are actually improving their life. I consider 
that the improvement in the quality of life of a sickly individual is not trying to play 
God, on the contrary it is trying to be helpful. Scientific advances have shaken religious 
beliefs to their roots repeatedly through the ages. One misconception that many people 
have is that this technology can fall into the "wrong hands" and wreak havoc. That is 
totally outrageous. We could not clone a past figure to be the same person that he or she 
was before. If we were to even do that then it would be near impossible to spawn the 
same character. They would like any other ordinary human, would be conceived, 
developed, then born as all other babies. They would have the same appearance and 
genetic makeup as their counterpart. This does not mean that they would have the same 
mental capacity as their previous life. There are many things that lead to a personality; 
genetic makeup does not have as significant role as many believe. Cloning will change 
the face of the planet forever. We should be excited that we are able to duplicate such a 
complex sequence of genes. Whatever you feel is morally right we should allow this to 
happen because if we never explore the risks then we can never enjoy the benefits. As 
previously stated the researches on human cloning yield many new technologies that 
will forever aid in the bettering of society. We can not continue to prohibit the 
exploration of scientific study. If this practice continues then we will not be able to 
continue to develop advancements in the prolonging of the human species. We can not 
impose a ban on cloning, if we do then who is to say that we will not impose a ban on 
the research that will hopefully one day lead to a cure for aids or cancer. 

In conclusion, we have seen that there are many different opinions on the question if 
human cloning should be permitted or not. In this essay I have tried to explain the 
different opinions on this issue. Some of them agree with human cloning because it will 
benefit humankind and help cure diseases. Then there are others that do agree with 
human cloning to help sickly people but consider there should be restrictions. And other 
arguments deal with the complete opposition of human cloning considering it is 
pretending to play God. In this essay I  have tried to explain why in my opinion human 
cloning should be permitted and why it will benefit people in many ways. The future of 
genetic engineering and human cloning appears to be in doubt. However, the outlook 
suggests that organ cloning will progress simply because of the enormous potential 
health benefits and large public support. The issues concerning human cloning is 
shrouded in controversy, perhaps overshadowing the true advantages of cloning 
technology.














