
Prostitution has long been called the oldest profession in the world, and there is 
probably good justification for that. Prostitution is an issue which has caused 
controversy cross-culturally and historically. Although prostitution may have existed in 
every human culture throughout history, it hasn't always been tolerated, either from a 
legal or a moral perspective. Prostitution has been in existence for millennia, going back 
to the Byzantine, Roman, Greek and Egyptian Empires. Ironically, the ancient religions 
of those eras dealt with the needs of the group and consequently developed protocols for 
dealing with sexual relations that have propagated throughout time to the modern era. 
As a result, prostitution is not about to disappear anytime soon. Prostitution has been 
legal in the Netherlands since January 1988, when it was defined as a legal profession. 
This legalized status allows prostitutes to have access to the social security system, 
since 1996 sex workers have paid income tax, and reforms in 1999 gave prostitution the 
same status as any other form of labour. In this essay I intend to show my opinion why I 
think prostitution should be legalized in Spain.

From my point of view, the basic argument in favour of legalizing prostitution is that 
they work in conditions that make them prone to violence due to the lack of supervision. 
We have to bear in mind that prostitutes are human beings like any others and they 
deserve to work in save and decent conditions. Additionally, laws against prostitution 
violate fundamental rights of individual liberty and personal privacy. Prostitution in the 
streets is a very dangerous job. Prostitutes whose jobs involve working at night and 
getting into cars with complete strangers can be, and often have been, easy pickings for 
serial killers and other sociopaths. But it is a stronger fact that keeping prostitution 
illegal increases crime rates in the streets, because many criminals view prostitutes and 
their customers as attractive targets for robbery, fraud, rape, or other criminal acts. The 
criminals realize that such people are unlikely to report the crimes to police, because the 
victims would have to admit they were involved in the illegal activity of prostitution 
when the attacks took place. However by legalizing prostitution such activities would 
remain in certain areas such as in brothels or near motels. A sensible solution to these 
problems would be to follow the example of some European cities, where prostitution is 
allowed in certain designated areas. People who are interested in the activity go to 
places where it is permitted, and they leave alone the neighbourhoods that don't wish to 
be associated with it. And the prostitutes can work in environments where they are 
much safer.
My opinion is also supported by the fact that everyone has the right to control their own 
bodies and decide the best way to conduct their lives. Likewise for the customers, 
there's no reason their freedom should not include the right to purchase the 
companionship and affection they may want. Moreover I think that if selling is legal, 
and sex is legal I think selling sex should be legal as well. In fact, many people work in 
the sex industry because they see it as their only means of alleviating serious financial 
problems. I very much doubt women choose prostitution as a career. Many haven't got 
another way out. Legalizing prostitution would prevent underground prostitution that 
occurs today. When men want to pay for sex, they find prostitutes. 20% of Spaniard 
men have purchased prostituted women at least once. <R>. These people work in 
massage parlours, escort services, strip bars and modelling agencies or still work 
corners as traditional streetwalkers. There are legitimate parlours, dating services, bars 
and agencies but of the hundreds that exist within newspaper classified advertisements 
and telephone directories, there are a large number that provide sexual services. On the 
other hand, many critics argue that legalizing prostitution increases the demand of 
prostitution and that the sex industry promotes  sex trafficking. It boots the motivation 
of men to buy women for sex. Many critics argue that legalization means that the state 
imposes regulations under which women can be prostituted. In effect, regulation means 
that under certain conditions it is permissible to exploit and abuse women. But I think 
that if we allow prostitution to remain hidden from view and basically invisible to the 
law as it is today, we allow a number of teens and women to be swept up into 
prostitution every year.  It is estimated that 100,000 to 3 million teens are nearly 
invisibly prostituted per year in the United States <R>. Pimps and 
organized crime figures, which regularly treat their workers on subhuman levels, would 
no longer control women. Many things would be avoided like prostitute rings that buy 
and sell women on the black market, force their women to comply through violence and 
create unhealthy working conditions. When adult women decide to exchange money for 
sex, it is a personal choice open to them under the philosophy of a free, democratic 
society. Legalizing prostitution will help prevent these instances through regulation. 
Legalized, regulated prostitution has many benefits. 
The most important argument that supports my viewpoint is that prostitutes suffer under 
a poor health-safety plan. They often work in poor hygienic and unsafe conditions. They 
suffer under sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) like syphilis, gonorrhoea, chlamydia, 
herpes and worst of all AIDS. Prostitution has been criminalized, repressed, and fought 
against in many different societies and for many different reasons. If prostitution would 
be decriminalized it will become economically profitable and feasible for not only the 
prostitutes, but also for the government as a whole. Without the laws which force 
prostitution underground, the profession of prostitution could become a clean and safe 
occupation. There is a strong reason for legalizing prostitution by regulating the 
industry, thereby monitoring sex workers and consequently the clients they serve. The 
main idea is that through legalization and subsequent registration, a system of health 
examinations can be administered and made mandatory by the state. This will reduce 
the incidence of the spread of HIV/AIDS from infected individuals to supposedly 
healthy non-infected individuals since the prostitute would not be able to practice her 
trade until she had received a clean bill of health. In addition, the licensing of prostitutes 
will provide additional tax revenue since under registration schemes, the income of 
prostitutes will be taxable as legitimate income and since there is a large number of 
women involved in this activity a substantial amount of taxes will be collected. Though 
most existing laws concerning prostitution were formulated on the assumption that 
prostitution is immoral activity, with women being the most immoral participants. 
Therefore, laws that ban prostitution usually criminalize the women. Most of the 
women are seeking to escape poverty, violence and lack of opportunities, but once they 
are under control of pimps or traffickers, they are induced into prostitution by physical 
and sexual violence and economic coercion. With no recourse, the women submit in the 
hope of eventually earning enough money to buy their way out of debt or finding a way 
to escape.  However from my point of view allowing prostitution to remain invisible 
only perpetuates the spread of sometimes-deadly sexually transmitted diseases. Upon a 
close examination of the Netherlands reveals interesting findings. Amsterdam is the 
capitol of the Netherlands and is internationally known for its redlight district. Critics to 
prostitution might be stunned to learn that the Netherlands has the least number of 
murders and rapes. It prosecutes a considerable amount of criminals but has a low 
number of prisoners. It does not suffer from an HIV/AIDS epidemic, like the U.S. and 
the U.K., and has the second lowest suicide rate listed. Prostitutes should be tested for 
sexually transmitted diseases; and HIV tests should be done on a monthly basis and the 
use of condoms should be mandatory. 

To conclude, I have tried to show why in my opinion prostitution should be legalized in 
Spain. The benefits of legalizing prostitution are helping women who are trapped by 
prostitution, preventing teens form being ensnared into prostitution, avoid crime in the 
streets, and to better safety and healthcare conditions of the sex workers. Moreover 
making prostitution legal will allow the act to be managed instead of ignored. It has 
been argued that prostitution brings the spread of disease, that it encourages the spread 
of vice and crime. However I think that in the near future and in spite of all these heavy 
reasons prostitution will not be legalized in our country because has caused controversy 
over the decades and it means a problem for our government.

      
      
      
      
      
      
      
