Sex education in public schools has been a controversial issue in the United States for 
over a decade. With the HIV and teen pregnancy crises growing, sex education is 
needed. But the public controversy centred around sex education in public schools has 
shifted. Where the question was once whether or not sexual education should be taught 
in public schools, the fray now questions the methodology of what is being taught. The 
division exists between advocates of an "abstinence only" approach versus the more 
traditional sexuality programs that include the correct usage and protective qualities of 
contraceptives in order to avoid teen pregnancies. Teen pregnancy is one of the most 
critical issues facing America today. The explosion of teen births is a crisis that 
threatens to undermine the USA. Each year, one million American teenagers become 
pregnant. With rising rates of HIV and other STDs among young people, increasing sex 
education in schools is a high priority among public health professionals. In this essay I 
intend to review the different opinions about sex education in schools. 

Most teens receive sexual information from friends, parents, magazines and books, 
sexuality education courses, television and movies. But this is not enough teens should 
be prepared in school, should be taught how to avoid unwanted pregnancies, how to 
access to contraceptive methods and where to go in case of need of medical assistance. 
The opposition to teaching sex-education in schools usually comes from groups that are 
opposed in principle to comprehensive sexuality education in public schools. They 
argue that such education usurps parental rights and encourages "immoral" premarital 
sexual promiscuity in the young. Although most school districts give parents the 
opportunity to exclude their children from participation in sexuality education 
programs, many opponents seek to block comprehensive programs for everyone. 
Groups that seek to undermine comprehensive sexuality education frequently promote 
alternative sex education, called "abstinence-only" curricula <R>. These 
programs instil fear and shame to discourage teenagers from engaging in sexual activity. 
They generally provide little information that can help sexually active teenagers protect 
themselves from pregnancy or disease. These curricula are laden with scientific and 
medical inaccuracies, sexist and racist stereotypes, and religious prescriptions for proper 
behaviour and values. Focused on delivering a <Q> the 
abstinence-only curricula censor important information about human sexuality. 
Although statistics suggest that sexuality education is widespread in American schools, 
the quality and comprehensiveness of this education vary considerably. In some places, 
teachers of sexuality education are prohibited from mentioning topics such as 
intercourse, masturbation, abortion, homosexuality, or condoms. Only five percent of 
American students receive truly comprehensive sexuality education <R>. Some of the opposition may come from people who have inadequate information 
or misinformation about the programs; their concerns are usually allayed through 
education about the content and aims of the program. 
Very often what causes disinformation about sexuality, is the fear of parents finding out, 
embarrassment, misinformation about risks of pregnancy and STDs, fear of procedures 
such as blood tests or pelvic exams, lack of knowledge regarding the need for 
contraception especially among younger teens and lack of awareness of legal rights to 
family planning services and abortion. The risks of not having being sexually-educated 
are various such as unwanted pregnancies and transmission of STD's.
A sexually active teenager who does not use contraceptives has a 90% chance of 
becoming pregnant within one year. Teen mothers are less likely to complete high 
school, less likely to get married, and more likely to go on welfare than their peers. 
Children of teen parents have to face many difficulties such as that their health is 
poorer, their cognitive development is slower, and their behavioural problems are worse 
than their peers. The death rate from pregnancy complications is much  higher among 
girls who give birth under age 15 than among older mothers. Babies born to young teen 
mothers have a higher risk of serious health problems. Physical and mental birth defects 
affect many babies born to very young women. Two out of three pregnant teenagers 
drop out of school <R>. 

On the other hand there are those parents who believe sexual education should be taught 
in schools. Those supporting this viewpoint consider sexual education very helpful in 
preventing pregnancies and STD's. There are several arguments in favour of sex 
education in school such as that it helps children asking freely about their doubts and 
concerns and learning in an early stage of their development how to deal with their 
sexuality. Those against sex education argue is that they feel that sex education 
encourages teens to experiment with sex. According to those in favour of sexual 
education, this reasoning is based on absolutely nothing. There is no evidence that 
proves that sex education causes anything negative. On the contrary many teens, 
especially younger ones, lack the cognitive maturity to understand connections between 
actions and long-term consequences, this includes inability to understand the 
consequences of early pregnancy, ineffective adoption of contraceptive practices, and 
inconsistent use of contraception <R>. This is why sex 
education is needed.
Teachers should not  be afraid to represent sexuality as a positive experience that can be 
beneficial and enjoyable when handled maturely and responsibly. Teachers and parents 
should avoid claims that abstinence is the only option, and instead teach responsible sex 
and help to expand teen's knowledge about the correct ways to use contraceptives. 
Sexual education should include a discussion of the emotional aspects of relationships 
and sexuality. Teachers cannot truly educate if they are given a script to read and told 
that they cannot deviate from it to discuss open-ended questions that students ask. 
Efforts to derail comprehensive sexuality education or to impose abstinence-only 
curricula violate civil liberties <R>. Sexuality education is a lifelong 
process of acquiring information and forming attitudes, beliefs, and values about 
identity, relationships, and intimacy. Sexuality education is more than teaching young 
people about anatomy and the physiology of reproduction. It encompasses sexual 
development, reproductive health, interpersonal relationships, affection, intimacy, body 
image, and gender roles. Parents, peers, schools, religion, the media, friends, and 
partners all influence the way people learn about sexuality.
Supporters of comprehensive sex education programs, in which students are taught 
about birth control methods and how to protect themselves against STDs, contend that 
abstinence-only programs are ineffective. One of the best ways to support 
comprehensive sexuality education is through a state-wide or local coalition according 
to American Civil Liberties Union. Health educators, school board members, school 
administrators, parents, health professionals, clergy, and students should work together 
to establish and protect comprehensive sexuality education programs. They should 
obtain the information that will enable them to argue forcefully that comprehensive 
sexuality education can be a major influence in persuading teenagers to postpone sexual 
activity and to protect themselves from disease and premature pregnancy. After being 
faced with sex on an everyday basis, the independent teens of today will make their own 
decisions on whether or not to have sex. The important thing is to make sure that they 
know all aspects of it. A study conducted on teens in Sweden and the Netherlands 
showed that teens in those countries were just as sexually active, but the teen pregnancy 
and sexually transmitted disease rate was much lower. Researchers say this is due to sex 
education that begins in elementary school and continues on <R>.
However there are those parents who consider sex-education is necessary and has it's 
benefits but they consider parents should be the ones to explain their children about 
sexuality. They think teaching sexual education in schools usurps parental rights to do 
so.  Some of the American public believe that sex education should be taught at home 
by the children's parents. They feel that sex education programs in schools do not put an 
emphasis on what is really important and encourages children to have sexual 
intercourse. Teachers can quickly find themselves out of control when facing a room 
full of adolescent students. With classes full of immature children fascinated by the 
subject matter and giggles children are exposed to the deadly serious aspect of 
approaching their sexual development responsibly. Their teachers constantly struggling 
to keep the children focused on the gravity of what is being discussed.  Consequently, 
because of the loose and casual atmosphere of sex education classrooms, thousands of 
parents question the validity and the effectiveness of sex-education being delivered in 
public education. Those parents do not agree with a stranger or a teacher explaining 
their children about the contraceptive methods, or about unwanted pregnancies or the 
use of preservatives. Some also feel that sex education should be taught at home by 
parents. But there are those that think that there is no guarantee that kids will be taught 
at home, many because they will not feel comfortable or freely to ask what they really 
want to know. Guidance from families and schools is key in fostering teenagers' healthy 
sexual development and responsible behaviour. Far more adolescents are sexually active 
now than was the case in recent decades. Fifty-six percent of boys and 50 percent of 
girls aged 15-19 report having had sexual intercourse <R>.

In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments in favour and against sex 
education in schools. In this essay I have tried to explain the three different opinions to 
the issue. Some of them deal with the opinion of those parents and educators against sex 
education in schools and defenders of the "abstinence-only" curricula. The arguments in 
favour agree with sex education in school because they consider those lesson are 
benefitable to avoid thousands of unwanted pregnancies every year and the spread of 
STD's. Other arguments deal with the opinion of those parents that agree with sex 
education but prefer being them explaining their children about sexuality. Sex education 
seeks both to reduce the risks of potentially negative outcomes from sexual behaviour 
like unwanted or unplanned pregnancies and infection with sexually transmitted 
diseases. This is why sex education in schools is needed.



