

Europe is said to have the highest per-capita consumption of cigarettes in the six World 
Health Organization regions, and the European Community is the second largest 
producer of cigarettes after China <R>, so the fact that in the 
European union alone smoking-related illness causes 500.000 deaths per year - 10% of 
them among non-smokers killed by second hand smoke <R> - is not 
surprising, but it should be alarming. Tobacco smoke contains more than 4.000 
chemical substances of which more than 50 are known to be carcinogenic and more than 
100 to be toxic; some of these more concentrated in second hand smoke <R>. To both protect the health of those who smoke and those who do not, 
Europe has passed some laws to restrict public smoking, but will we ever be able to get 
through the thick fog of European smoke and reach a clean air atmosphere?  In this 
essay I will discuss and personally analyse the opinions of Europeans towards the new 
antismoking laws.

It is assumed that smokers are likely to suffer from some specific illness caused by 
tobacco, what it is not so often regarded are the consequences of passive smoking: only 
15% of smoke from a cigarette is inhaled by the smoker, the remainder can be breathed 
in by the other people present <R>. According to the authors of a 
study published in April 2004 in the British Medical Journal there is a 15% higher risk 
of mortality in adults who live with a smoker <R>. In May of the same year, the 
WHO's International Agency for Research on Cancer classified passive smoking in the 
group of human carcinogens and showed that involuntary exposure caused lung cancer 
in people who had never smoked <R>. Furthermore, tobacco smoke 
particularly affects children in whom it causes an increased risk of respiratory and ear 
infections among others. It was estimated that in 2001 within the EU-15 alone, exposure 
to second hand smoke accounted for 50 to 100.000 deaths each year <R>. 

France's pro-smoking culture is far from unique. During the ten years that the French 
have been ignoring their public smoking law, not a single fine or citation has been 
issued <R>. In France, asking someone to douse their cigarette is 
considered bad form, even an act of aggression. 
Catherine Pinet is the ex-smoker co-owner of "Le Chien qui fume" (the smoking dog), a 
Parisian café. <Q> <R>.
Sophie Duhamel, a travel agent, smoking at Poissy-Charles de Gaulle airport said: <Q> <R>.

Italy passed its first laws banning smoking in public places in 1975, but neither those 
laws nor the new ones seem to have been very effective... <Q> laments Angelo Pisani, a Naples lawyer who 
has filled a class action against tobacco companies (Crumley, 2003).
<Q> <R>.
Pino Mannarino, owner of Osteria dell'ingegno in Rome said that he did not think 
smoking regulations that are to take effect on January 1st 2006 will affect his 
restaurant's business much. <Q> <R>. 

In Britain, where there are no legal restrictions on smoking in public places, a recent 
survey found that 80% of people said that they favoured a smoking ban in the 
workplace, though that number dropped to 50% for a ban that included pubs <R>. The more than one quarter of Britons who smoke enjoy fairly broad freedom to 
inhale their fags in pubs and restaurants <R>. A patron at the London's 
oldest restaurants asks a waiter to stop the smokers at the next table, and the waiter 
chides him: <Q> <R>. 
Some British tourists in Dublin were rapturous about he pub air: <Q> <R>. 
Ian Murray of Dataflow Communications said: <Q> <R>.  

Ireland passed by far the strictest smoking ban in Europe on March 29 of 2004. it 
prohibits smoking in workplaces, which includes buses, offices, and pubs. Pub owners 
complain that business is down drastically, by as much as 50 per cent, and almost all 
say that they have had to lay off workers. In dozens of interviews, including many 
smokers, customers say that they are enjoying the clean air at the pub and the office. 
Many smokers admit that going outside for a cigarette is <Q>; what is more, 
almost all said that they had been smoking much less since the ban took effect. 

Spain is the second biggest per capita consumer of tobacco in Europe after Greece, 
according to market researchers Euromonitor. From January 1st of 2006 it is illegal to 
smoke in offices, most hospitals, schools and shopping centers, while bars and 
restaurants of more than 100 square meters must have non-smoking sections, but bars 
smaller than that can choose whether to ban or allow smoking throughout. More than 
half of Spain considers smoking a right that should not be restricted, according to a 
recent survey by government pollsters CIS. <Q> <R>. 
According to José Luis Guerra, spokesman for the Spanish Hoteliers Federation 
(FEHR), <Q> <R>. 

In 2001 the Russian government passed a host of  laws that barred smoking in offices 
and on public transportation and prohibited the sale of tobacco to people under 18. The 
Russian law also proscribes depiction of smoking in TV, film and theatre productions, 
and 400.000 people die from tobacco-related diseases each year <R>. 

Upscale restaurants in Lisbon provide smokers with covers for cigarette packs so they 
will not have those hostile health warnings disturbing their meal <R>.

In Denmark, there is no minimum age for purchasing tobacco, so 10 year-olds are free 
to light up just about anywhere except for the classroom <R>.

According to this opinions, we can get to the conclusion that the majority of the 
Europeans - 'casually' most of them smokers - do not seem to be very happy with the 
new antismoking laws, because they are being quitted of what they consider a right, and 
they feel like victims of the law. This seems to me a rather selfish opinion: if talking 
about rights, what are the right for the non-smokers then? For many years, non-smokers 
have suffered the smoke of tobacco almost everywhere, and they respected those who 
smoked. Now that the tides have turned, respect has just disappeared because most 
smokers infringe the laws and do what they like, they just regard their own world of 
unfairness and misunderstood excluding non-smokers al all, who in my opinion, are the 
real victims of smoke. Personally I do not have any problem with someone who wants 
to kill himself by smoking, what I do not accept is that I also have to be affected by that 
person's addiction, and I think that many other non-smokers have this opinion. 
I believe that smoking is al big matter of respect. And when someone smokes, for 
example, inside the university, he is being disrespectful towards the ones who now have 
the right to breath clean air.

From my point of view there is also a lot of hypocrisy among many smokers. We can 
see this, for example, when a smoking mother tells his children to throw the envelope of 
their chewing-gums into the bin, and ten minutes later she throws her cigarette to the 
ground and steps over it. Why is one breakable and not the other? They are both ways 
of breaking a law, should not they be considered the same? How can you hope to be 
respected when you do not respect the rights of the others?

Some smokers say that smoking is a part of their culture, they have always acted like 
that and so they will go on smoking. Smoking is considered a tradition all over Europe. 
Cutting the hand of someone who stole in a market was also a tradition three or four 
centuries ago, but traditions change because we must progress, so ,for me, the fact that 
smoking is regarded as 'traditional' is not a strong enough excuse for breaking the new 
antismoking laws. 

I think that the biggest problem on this issue is not only that we feel that our rights are 
being hurt, but that breaking the antismoke laws does affect our health and so our lives 
very negatively. I believe that the fact that a child or an adult who has never smoked 
may die from a lung cancer because of passive-smoking is so unfair... Smokers have 
the right to do what they want with their health, but non-smokers have the right not to 
be condemned to bad health condition or even death because of tobacco.
From my viewpoint, the matter would come to an end if we just respected the rights of 
the others.  





















