

Although new and more severe traffic laws are being applied, the rate of car accidents 
does not descend. This makes me wonder whether the problem resides on the not hard 
enough punishment for this kind of crimes, which usually ends with paying a rather 
small amount of money as a fine. In this essay I will argue about the consequences of 
causing a car accident according to the new traffic legislation in Spain.

Two of the main causes of traffic accidents in our country are the excess of speed and 
not wearing the seat belts. Up to 77% of Spanish drivers agree that the function of the 
police is mainly to 'catch' in order to them to make them pay a fine . I think this way of 
punishment is in most cases useless because in my opinion money is just a way of 
getting rid of going to prison or doing any king of social work, what could really take a 
little of the driver's time to think about what they have done wrong. By paying small 
fines, I believe that they will just try to be more careful not to be seen by the police next 
time, but I do not think paying will persuade them not to commit the same fault again.

According to Pere Navarro, director of the DGT, driving at night is more dangerous and 
so it requires a driver with more experience, an experience that should be acquired with 
the light of the day, he says. It is being studied the possibility of forbidding night 
driving to drivers with less than a year since they got their driving license. This seems to 
me a senseless idea: someone who got his or her driving license is supposed to be able 
to drive under almost any condition; it is up to them to be responsible enough to know 
that, for example, they should not drink if they are going to take the car or that they 
should be more prudent with speed because at night it is more difficult to see the road, 
the people and the other cars. I feel that more presence of the police strategically 
situated making controls on the roads would be more effective.

It is true that with the new traffic laws the possibility to get imprisoned grows bigger, 
but anyway it will be the judge who determines the cases that must be punished with 
prison. Mario Arnaldo, president of the AEA, explains that <Q>. I strongly believe that this is completely 
unfair: you do not go to prison only because it is your first time? What kind of 
concession is this? I think, either being the first or the fourth time that you commit a 
crime, it is still a crime, and so it should be punished depending on its consequences or 
the damages it caused, not on what the person had done before the accident. 

Nowadays driving without having ones car insured is not considered an offence. Thus, 
from now on it will be punished with fines varying from six hundred to three thousand 
euros, and if the owner of the vehicle does not get insured in two months time, the car 
may be destroyed by the police. I believe that this is a great advance compared to the 
way it worked before: if the driver argued not being able to afford paying a car 
insurance the fine to pay was only sixty euros, which is very much cheaper than a car 
insurance. This new law will, from my point of view, be more effective because there is 
a big possibility of losing the car, apart from the fact that the fines to pay are higher and 
it would 'hurt our pockets' a bit more.

On the other hand, we have the case of Farruquito, this Spanish dancer who killed a 
man with his car and then fled form the place without attending the injured man. He has 
only been condemned to the minimal punishment of sixteen months in prison. As this is 
the minimal punishment and he had no antecedents, he can avoid going to prison. His 
only problem cloud have been money, but as he has lots of it, he does not mind paying 
at all. This situation appears to me so unfair, the way in which prison can be avoided by 
giving some pieces of paper to the family of the victim. What use will  money be to 
them if they cannot have the person they loved, I wonder. Cruel as it seems to me, 
nothing can be done because they say money can move a mountain, and unfortunately it 
does move a lot more than that.

To conclude, I maintain that although the new traffic laws are harder concerning 
punishment, they are still too soft or incomplete in many aspects; people may still not 
be afraid enough of these laws and as a consequence car accidents will go on happening. 
One possible solution, I believe, could be reinforcing police presence making controls 
on the roads and also increase the punishment for traffic offenders even more, making 
drivers think twice before being imprudent on the roads, not only for their own security, 
but for the rest of the people's. 










