
<Q> <R>. Despite there is a big amount of Americans who agree or simply do 
not care about homosexual marriage, there are still many of them who manifest their 
absolute disagreement with this kind of union. In this essay I will discuss different 
points of view about the fact that two people of the same gender have the opportunity of 
getting married. 

Supporters of traditional marriage consider that marriage shall only be defined as the 
union of one man and one woman <R> and so they do not consider 
same-sex marriage (SSM) natural; it does not fit their own definition. It was not until 
1967 that mixed race couples could marry, and this was a clear example of breaking a 
tradition. The institution of marriage has been changing for centuries, and it should go 
on changing to benefit those who want to make use of it. The argument of not changing 
something only because it is a tradition seems somehow weak: if we had always 
followed traditions, we would have never progressed and maybe we would still be 
thinking that the Earth is the centre of the universe, for example. 
Gay activists contend that SSM does not negatively affect heterosexual marriages, it 
will allow them to have access to the same benefits that other couples had always 
received and taken for granted <Q> <R>. This 
seems to be a rather persuasive argument: they are asking for their rights, what is 
absolutely legal; the laws do not contemplate their situation and they just want to have 
the same rights as any other married couple in the country has. 

Many conservative Christians believe that <Q> <R>. This 
could be a very strong argument: if you ask people to describe what their image of a 
family is, the majority of their answers would follow the definition mentioned before 
because in most of the cases they will describe what they are used to see. Nevertheless, 
as we look back into the past, this argument weakens: eight different types of families 
are described in the Bible, for example Abraham or Solomon had multiple wives (as 
slaves or concubines), furthermore, some excommunicated splinter Mormons still have 
more than one wife. 

Some people maintain that married homosexuals may not be good parents because they 
will raise children who will also be homosexuals; they believe that a male and a female 
parent is needed to well-breed a child. It may be true that living under the influence of 
people of the two genders might benefit a child in the way that he or she will be 
educated under two different points of view but, what happens then with single parent 
families? They just supply the absence of a parent of the opposite sex with the presence 
of a big brother or sister or a relative such as a grandmother or uncle frequent visits. 
Referring to the first argument, it could easily be refused: children do not always act 
like their parents: if they did so, children born of heterosexual marriages would always 
be heterosexual, and so it is possible that homosexuality would not exist. In addition,  
recent studies have shown that children of gay and lesbian parents do as well as children 
in heterosexual-led families and are no more likely to grow up gay and lesbian, in fact 
due to their same-gender parents' influence these children tend to be more tolerant 
towards minorities <R>. 

The five mayor religions of the world, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and 
Judaism, teach that homosexual behaviour is sinful or wrong. These same religions 
<Q> <R>. This argument is apparently strong: if you follow any of these religions you must 
not contradict their principles. If you belong to a certain religion it is because you 
believe on its teachings, and it should not be permitted anything that goes against them 
among their members. The problem is that this argument does not contemplate those 
who do not belong to any religion, and so they are not acting wrong because they are 
not actually breaking any rule. 

President George Bush said that <Q> <R>. In a first place, he is mixing his own beliefs 
and religion with politics, and the First amendment of the U.S. Constitution separates 
church and state, so that legislation can not be made on religious grounds. In a second 
place, amending the Constitution is not so easy, requiring a big majority of the votes for 
any change; in fact it has only been amended 17 times in 215 years <R>.

There are many arguments against same-sex marriage in America such as religion, 
affecting children and breaking with a relatively ancient tradition. Thus, ideas must 
progress and equal rights to all American citizens should be recognised. In conclusion: 
changes are always difficult to accept, understand and overcome, and maybe with the 
time the idea of same-sex marriage will be accepted and become a new part of our 
traditions.









