

In our present society, there is an intense debate about the increase of juvenile 
criminality. The "Ley del Menor", was promulgated 5 years ago, and it is necessary to 
take stock of it, and reflect about its rights and wrongs. Studies reveal that there has 
been a significant increase in the amount of violent offences committed by underage 
teens. That is the reason why our government has announced their intention to reform 
the "Ley de Responsabilidad Penal del Menor" to confront this phenomenon. This new 
legislative text intends to reconcile educative measures with an improvement of the 
victim's protection.  The implications of this law have awakened the concern of the 
different associations mainly interested in this issue. In this essay, I am going to explain 
the different main flaws of this new law and why, in my opinion these changes are not 
enough to confront underage crime.

The first important flaw I see is the lack of personal and material means to rehabilitate 
and resocialize these problematic youngsters. The government has delegated the 
responsibility to afford the infrastructures and the specialised professionals needed for 
this task to each Autonomous Region (Comunidad Autónoma). According to Félix 
Herrero, Fiscal Jefe of León,
<Q> <R>
In Madrid, for example, 57.7% of the 600 underage youngsters that were arrested, 
should have been confined in a closed-regime due to the seriousness of the offence, but 
the four centres that Madrid has for these violent teens, have a capacity of just 97 
people. However, there are many specialists like Emilio Calatayud, Magistrate of the 
Underage Court of Granada, that claim that condemning underage youngsters to stay in 
a juvenile centre is not the correct way to rehabilitate them. Instead, he prefers to apply 
instructive and educative sentences <R>. Nevertheless, from my point of 
view, this argument completely forgets about those youngsters who have committed 
violent crimes such as murder, homicide and rape; these kind of faults, are not so easy 
forgivable or forgettable for our society and our individual moral code.  

This issue leads me to another major flaw I appreciate in the application of the law; and 
that is the fact that, in my view there is not a good reason to abandon the intimidatory 
and preventive perspective of the punishment, since it is considered one of the ways to 
educate teens. Most people know that fear to be imprisoned is a very effective 
dissuasive element that will be partially lost if this law is carried out, because it will 
reduce its intimidating character by cutting down or changing the sentences by 
alternative chores. This fact, depending on the offence, may seem to be very 
"profitable" for the offender. On the other hand, magistrates in charge of these kind of 
cases, claim that what needs to be changed is society's vindictive culture to a more 
rehabilitating one. We should not put ourselves in the place of the parents' victim but on 
the skin of the parents' of the underage boy or girl that commits the crime and think 
about how we would like our son to be treated.  However, this type of "soft measures" 
would result in the indignation of a great part of our society, which would make the law 
fairly unpopular and severely criticised. These measures would also probably cause 
serious and ultimate incidents between the victim's angered family and the offender as 
it has happened many times before. 

The third flaw I have found is that the possibility of making a private prosecution is not 
permitted in any case, not even in those that are considered violent crimes. A private 
prosecution occurs when an individual, or a group of individuals, gathers evidence of a 
wrongdoing and lays charges against the alleged offender. The police and/or 
government are not involved in the matter. Essentially, the individual takes matters into 
his/her own hands and plays the role of the police or enforcement body. Spanish law 
considers that every person has the right to initiate a private prosecution against an 
alleged perpetrator in any matter that constitutes a violation of the Criminal Code. 
However, some people may argue that, if the family of the victim is allowed to lay a 
private prosecution, the conditions they will ask for may be under the influence of their 
anger towards the offender, so they will not be objective enough to appreciate under 
which circumstances the underage youth committed the fault. But, this is not completely 
true, since there are means in the law, firstly, to prevent that the defendant is offended 
and secondly, to watch over his/her interests. The presence of the victim could even be a 
good way to make the youngsters understand the seriousness of their acts. It makes no 
sense the fact that the victim cannot lay a private prosecution but he or she is asked to 
give his/her conformity to adopt any measure. 

Finally, another major aspect, which is hardly mentioned in the new law for underage 
youngsters, is the issue of consciousness. The Spanish Constitution sets that we reach 
the majority of age at 18 years old. That implies many things: from driving a car to 
voting in the elections. That is what the law says, but reality is, unfortunately, quite 
different. We have to bear in mind that maturity is a stage, and it is an important issue to 
think about when writing laws. If a teen is capable of acting freely as a mature person, 
he or she should also be capable of assuming the consequences and responsibilities of 
his/her acts. Nevertheless, some psychologists claim that maturity depends on many 
factors that combine in different ways depending on each person. Therefore, the 
development of a consciousness does not depend as much on the age but on the 
circumstances that surround each individual, so, according to this fact, we should not 
establish a law building a precise frontier of age between maturity and immaturity, 
because this would not represent the reality.  But, actually, that frontier needs to be 
established at some point in our life, in which our character is supposed to be formed, 
and that seems to be the age of 18. In addition to this, I should say that, even people 
who has not reached the majority of age know how to distinguish good from bad 
although the may not be completely conscious of their consequences.  

To conclude, it is clear that from my point of view, this new reform of the "Ley del 
Menor" should be revised again to solve the many flaws it has. The most important ones 
are: the absence of means to put into practise the resocialization of youngsters, the 
smoothening of the punishment since it is not considered educative anymore, the 
prohibition of making a private prosecution, even in violent crimes, and the fact that in 
the legal text, the issue of a teen being conscious about his/her acts and consequences is 
not even mentioned. Having described some of the main problems of the new law, my 
opinion is that a solution is not to be reached any time soon. There may be continuous 
struggles between the victim and his/her relatives and the offender, due to the softness 
or the harshness of the sentence imposed. Meanwhile the government will continue 
trying to reach a consensus with which both parts are satisfied. 
  
 
 
 
 


2

