

In the last decades, there is certain controversy regarding the issue of legalising same-
sex couple's marriage. This question is being debated in many countries such as the 
USA or Spain. Spain's governing Socialist Party, has legalized gay marriage on June 
30, despite the opposition of the Vatican and bishops who consider this fact as a  hard 
challenge to traditional values. <R>   Another example of legalization 
of homosexual marriage can be found in the Netherlands, as many people know, this 
country has almost always been ahead when talking about same-sex couples' rights. A 
form of gay marriage has been legal in Denmark since 1989 (full marriage rights except 
for adoption rights and church weddings, and a proposal now exists in the Danish 
parliament to allow both of those rights as well) <R> This social 
debate is not about to disappear soon. In this essay I will try to analyse the different for 
and against arguments concerning the topic of the legalisation of gay matrimony.

The main argument against same-sex couples marriage, is mostly held by some 
religious groups. Many Christians, for example, consider marriage a sacrament and 
almost all agree that marriage is  instituted by God and serves as a figure of Christ and 
the Church. Pope John Paul II said there was no possibility the church would redefine 
its view of matrimony <R> He considers that marriage is a holy union 
between a man and a woman <Q> <R>. Moreover, in a document, written by the Vatican, it is said that: <Q> <R>. However, it could 
be argued that our constitution establishes the principle of separation of church and 
state. This principle, applies to marriage too. It should not be forgotten that marriage 
may be considered a legal contract. And it is the legal dimension that is being debated. 
Granting marriage rights to same-sex couples would not require Christianity, Judaism, 
Islam or any other religion to perform them. It would not require religious institutions to 
permit these ceremonies to be held on their grounds. People of faith would remain free 
to make their own judgements about what makes a marriage in the eyes of God, just as 
they are today. 

There are other people, with a non-religious perspective, that may feel that homosexual 
marriage goes against nature. This, is a premise which influences other arguments and 
which lies behind many people's negative opinions about homosexuality in general. For 
most people, heterosexual relationships are the norm, both in society and in nature. 
Homosexual marriage are therefore, considered abnormal and unnatural. They argue 
that, if we take a close look to it, we will not be able to see any example of same-sex 
couples within any species of living beings. Therefore, homosexual matrimonies should 
not be validated by society because we do not find them in nature. Nevertheless, it could 
be said that those arguments, may try to take advantage of the neutral categories of 
"natural" and "unnatural" in support of one's position, which actually seems to be just a 
matter of definition. In addition, humans, are part of nature, so if humans have 
homosexual relationships, that may be also part of nature.  It also appears that those that 
defend those arguments, use them as masks for religious, political or social prejudices.

The argument that homosexual relationships are "unnatural" is also meant to describe 
the fact that those marriages cannot procreate, which is supposed to be the "natural" 
consequence of such relationships. It is argued that gay marriage would undermine the 
institution of marriage because it is a legal and moral institution designed to promote 
and protect procreation and the raising of children. But according to this, no infertile 
couples would be allowed to marry; this would include both younger people who are 
infertile due to health issues as well as older people who are infertile due to the progress 
of old age. In addition to this, <Q> <R>. The differences are insignificant. Psychologists 
tell us that what makes the difference is the <Q>. Gay people are as capable of loving children as fully as anyone else. So, 
it could be argued that those opinions about the unnaturality of homosexual marriages 
cannot be accepted: just because some activity is not the norm among humans does not 
mean that it is unnatural and wrong. 

There are some people that accept marriage between people from the same sex but feel 
uncomfortable applying the term "matrimony" to those unions. For them, the word 
"marriage" is a term used by Christians to describe a sacred union between people of 
different sexes. They would not have any problem with what those legal unions would 
represent: equality of rights with the marriage couples, rights of inheritance, insurance, 
joint income tax filling, social services, fiscal advantages, etc. <R>. But 
they would not use the term "Gay Marriage", because:
 <Q>  <R>. This mid point of 
view, technically could be seen as a fair solution to the problem, avoiding those 
religious connotations that could affect some sectors of society. However, in practice, 
probably the term matrimony may still be used because of convention. 

The main arguments in favour of homosexual marriages are held by the gay and lesbian 
community itself and by some heterosexual people who feel that those groups deserve 
exactly the same rights straight-couples have. Many same-sex couples want the right to 
legally marry because they are in love and they want to honour their relationship in one 
of the greatest ways our society has to offer, by making a public commitment to stand 
together in good and bad times. They also recognize that it is simply, not fair to deny 
some families the protections all other families are to enjoy. The values that such gay 
couples exhibit in their daily lives are often indistinguishable from those of their 
straight neighbours. They are loyal to their mates, are monogamous, and devoted 
partners. They value and participate in family life, are committed to making their 
neighbourhoods and communities safer and better places to live. Many make valuable 
contributions to their communities, serving on school boards, volunteering in 
community charities, and trying to be good citizens. In doing so, they take full 
advantage of their relationship to make not only their own lives better, but those of their 
neighbours as well. These arguments are not based on any kind of discrimination 
towards any social group and, therefore they could be considered quite convincing. 

In conclusion, there are many arguments concerning the issue of letting gay couples 
marry. Those against these unions argue that marriage is an institution between man and 
women; therefore, it is unnatural and immoral to accept these matrimonies. In addition, 
they do believe that same-sex couples cannot marry since they are not able to have 
children, which, according to those groups, is the final goal of marriages. On the other 
hand there are some people, that consider gay couples should have exactly the same 
right to marry as straight-couples have, since marriage is a way of expressing each other 
the love they feel. Considering all the points of view already mentioned, it might be a 
good step towards equality the fact that society gets over its  fears and prejudices based 
mainly on ignorance and becomes a more open-minded one.







