
A quick analysis of present society shows that families have changed enormously 
during these last decades. A few years ago, families were much more stable than 
nowadays: they had stronger convictions, less stress, more members and the interaction 
between them was much more frequent. At present, families, in spite of their higher 
level of education and occupational training, they are affected by negative social 
influences typical of western societies and they are weaker in their structure. It is 
because of this problem that parents may decide to delegate the responsibility of the 
education of their children exclusively on teachers. This fact, has led to a growing 
problem; the lacking of good manners at school as well as at home. It seems a fact that 
today, the teaching methods are more advanced and sophisticated but just in the 
academic area; regarding pupils' behaviour and discipline in class many people feel that 
it has gone worse with regard to some years ago. As a consequence of this situation, a 
question has emerged in our society: Who should teach our children good manners? 
Teachers or parents?. In this essay, I will try to present the different range of opinions 
concerning the controversial issue of on who must fall the responsibility of the civic 
education of our children.


One of the main viewpoints considers that civic education should be taught in schools 
as any other subject. Traditionally, teaching was often the responsibility of priests or 
prophets, who enjoyed prestige and privileges and were considered model citizens. That 
is the reason why many people see teachers as role models for their children . They are 
perceived as good behavioural and social examples because of their cultural and 
appropriate manners, therefore worthy of imitation. Another factor that may condition 
parents to decide to relegate the good manners education to their teachers is the 
difficulty for them to conciliate working life and family needs. <Q> <R>.  In addition to this, they may feel 
that paying for their children schooling is a reason good enough to think that their 
offspring should receive all the education and values necessary to become a respectable 
citizen from school. Firstly, from my point of view, the teacher identity that used to be 
relevant some years ago has ceased to be that in the altered social situation. Modern 
schools, are over laden with responsibilities that should actually rely on parents. 
Personal and moral issues such as basic behaviour and social values may be more 
effectively taught at parent-child level before a child goes into school.  Secondly, it is 
true that present society is quite different from the one before: parents work more hours, 
pay more things and are more stressed, but that can never be a justification for leaving 
aside their role as parents. It may not be that difficult to show a child how to behave and 
correct his or her mistakes, little by little, in the different everyday situations that both 
live together. It is also not necessary a great amount of time to do this; the key, is to do 
it in the right time when it needs to be done. As always, it is more important the quality 
of the time than the quantity of the time.  Thirdly, I do not think education is a question 
of money. It is not fair neither for children nor for teachers that parents abandon their 
obligations. The impression they give is that they want teachers to resolve for them the 
upbringing of their children. As a result of this lack of responsibility on the side of the 
parents, it appears to me that <Q> <R>.


On the other hand, there are some other people, especially those whose jobs are related 
to education, who claim that the teaching of social behaviour should be done at home. 
Many teachers argue that if parents want them to teach maths or reading  they should 
send to school children who have manners , because if they have to spend half of the 
class trying to teach pupils how to behave, they would lose time of imparting their own 
subject, which is their ultimate and real function. According to Fernando Savater, 
professor of Philosophy in UCM: <Q> <R>. 
Teachers feel that they are forced to perform his job badly due to the amount of 
different activities and responsibilities they must perform in order to accomplish the 
educational program properly. Moreover, they feel overwhelmed because they are not 
given the material necessary for complete their aims. I quite agree with this viewpoint, 
the family is the first social group where a child should be integrated. It is the child's 
parents the ones that must be in charge of the formation of the character and personality 
of the child in the first years of his or her life. Children as it happens with other living 
beings, learn through imitation. They tend to perform what the adults of their 
surrounding world do. Therefore, it is essential the example those parents can give to 
their children, they  also, as teachers act as role model for younger generations. 


A great majority of people feel that this issue should be tackled from the point of view 
of the cooperation between parents and schools. The special relationship between school 
and family requires a very demanding coordination and communication between them. 
On one side, parents are the ones who have a very close and special relationship with 
their descendents so they should be the ones who should teach them basic attitudes such 
as sharing, life together, or personal cleaning. On the other, teachers, who are in charge 
of the teaching of a more specialised knowledge. In this way, education in the family 
works via examples whereas school education via work sessions. Choosing the school, 
means  that parents are sharing their ideals, wishes and civic values with the educational 
system. Therefore, they both establish a mutual confidence relationship where they help 
one another in the task of modeling a child's character and manners. If this agreement 
does not take place, the confidence on which that relation is based, would be 
dangerously affected making one of the two sides confront the other. Personally 
speaking, this point seems to be the most balanced one. It gathers teachers' and parents' 
view points. But instead of confronting and separating them radically as it happens in 
the previous opinions, they are joined together so that they benefit children's manners  
in the best possible way. Therefore, applying this system, teaching good manners would 
not only be an exclusive responsibility of the educational system but also of the familiar 
environment so that the teacher's behaviour is reinforced by the examples parents set at 
home. 


To conclude, we have seen the three main view points about the controversial issue of 
who should teach good manners to children. Some parents claim that these teaching 
should be performed uniquely by teachers since they are supposed to be models of 
behaviour for the society and the rhythm of present life makes it difficult for parets to 
find time to dedicate to their children. Other group of people, mainly composed by 
teachers argue that good manners is not competence of the educational system. They are 
convinced that teacher's role is to teach science, grammar, literature...not basic 
manners which should have been taught at home. Finally, most people agree with the 
notion that school and family should work hand by hand sharing the responsibility of 
teaching good manners so that the children are brought up in the best possible way 
having learned basic and specialised education. As I see it, this last viewpoint may be 
the best one for every part since the cooperation between them will help children 
achieve the best results. In the future, this situation may get more and more drastic until 
both extreme sides decide to listen to one another and to stop thinking about themselves 
and start thinking about children who are actually the real victims.



















 
 
 
 
