       
       VIOLENCE OF MINORITIES

       The violence is something innate in human beings and in our society the 
immigration from other countries has provoked that very different ethnics have to live 
together, something that can cause a lot of conflicts.
This situation has recently got worse in Spain due to the new violent groups who come 
from another countries, apart from those who we already have.  Moreover it is very 
difficult to know if the violence is increasing or not because there are so many actions 
that are not reported. In this essay I will show some measures that I would propose in 
order to reduce the actions of violent minorities in Spain.

	First of all one possible measure could be increased the number of police 
officers in some concrete areas where the police know that usually take place crimes 
with these types of groups. I believe that a lot of times police officers worry about 
crimes that are not so important and they forget about more serious problems. They 
could make raids to arrest people from these groups and in this way they get more 
information in order to reduce their actions. In addition to this if they get enough 
evidences against some of the members the police are able to send them to prison. It 
could be argued that the police have not so many agents to be in charge only of this will, 
and of course taking into account that the majority of them in a few time are out of the 
jail; however I think that the police could create a squad specialized in these kinds of 
groups. People who are trained and educated on how these bands act and react in a 
situation of conflict.
       It seems to me that one possible measure against minorities as the Latin Kings or 
the Ñetas could be creating a new law that whenever they were arrested for any kind of 
crime they would be sent immediately to their country. According to Federico Jiménez 
Losantos this is not a traditional band: <Q> <R>.
I strongly believe that this kind of people prejudice other people from South America 
who come to Spain to work and make the Spanish inhabitants to reject the immigration 
of this country and show their intolerance. Furthermore I think that if the members of 
these groups knew the risk that they would have if they are arrested they would not 
commit so many crimes. The justice has to intimidate them to make them react. It is 
possible to argue that some of the members are from Spain, and they do not worry about 
what this law implies, however I think that the leaders of these groups are Latin 
Americans and without them the Spanish members would not act. 
 	Another possible measure and on my view basic with respect to the gypsies 
could be provided them education. The little boys and girls that are gypsies never go to 
school in addition to this, they are influenced by the actions of their parents and their 
sisters and brothers that usually are not good deeds and taking into account this and the 
fact of their marginalization these boys and girls will grow up and make the same bad 
things that their environment do. However there are people that think in a different way: 
<Q> <R>.
 In relation to this I think that the principal responsibility is linked to the parents of these 
children; my own view is that these parents do not worry about their kid's education and 
they try to blame other people like teachers or the other children. Maybe one possible 
solution could be created schools just for them, but I insist on the necessity of their 
integration inside of our society because if it is not like this, the same problems persist. 
They need to learn some values apart from what they already know about their race and 
this make that their relationships with the rest of the people, that are not gypsies, 
improve.  In my opinion the most important aspect is that their parents cheer them up to 
learn new things. Some people feel that although these boys and girls go to school, their 
violent behaviour do not disappear because from an early age they have been taught to 
do things that are not legal, but I do not agree with this because I guess that education is 
the intermediate point to become in a good person, and if these people begin to do it, 
they learn the difference between bad and good deeds and this make them react to 
behave in a better way.

	Personally speaking I believe that one possible measure against the people who 
support the Nazism could be that whenever a member of this minority would be 
arrested, he or they were forced to follow a series of therapies. Other possible measures 
could be closed places like pubs where this people meet or do not allow them enter in 
the football matches where they practice their maximal violence <Q> <R>.
In relation with the first measure given I would propose specialised people who explain 
them all the negative aspects that their ideology has and I think that in this way, they 
could react and realize the kind of thoughts that they admire. Talking about the second 
measure if the police close pubs where they prepare their attacks at the same time this 
would avoid the incorporation of new members in the band. And with respect to the 
third possible measure I think that if the organisation would forbade the entrance of this 
kind of people to the football matches many violent situations (people who throw 
bottles or other objects to the football players, fights between football fanatics...) do not 
take place. It is possible to argue that these measures are difficult to get because firstly 
the Nazis do not want to take these courses, or secondly because the police have not 
enough information to finish with the meetings of them or in the third case because 
many clubs subsidize the tickets and the journey of these people to another cities. 
Nevertheless my opinion is that if the government take part in this problem all these 
measures can be taken and their violence would be reduced.

	In addition to all these possible measures explained before, I would propose to 
change the minor law. I would argue that nowadays it is more and more common to 
hear that a person under-18 has committed a crime and the justice can not punish them 
because according to them these boys and girls are not enough mature to know what is 
right and what is wrong.
I guess that a teenager with 13 years old or more know exactly the difference and if they 
are old enough to kill or to steal they should go to prison too. Nevertheless the minor 
defensor thinks: <Q> <R> <Q> <R>.

  In addition to this, my own view is that in many minorities which I have shown, 
members older than eighteen take advantage of the younger members and make them do 
things because they will not be punished. If this law would be changed every member 
would be at the same level and in my opinion there would not be so many crimes. Some 
people feel that the environment of the prison for a teenager is not the most appropriate, 
or even make them more violent however I think that is the only way in which they can 
realise of the seriousness of their acts.

	In conclusion we have seen the different measures that I think could improve the 
situation with these minorities: the police could create a squad specialized in these 
bands, Latin kings and Ñetas should be sent to their countries setting up a new law, the 
gypsies have to be educated and the minor law has to be changed. Considering all these 
points it might be reasonable that the government and the citizens make aware of this 
situation and try to solve it as soon as possible. 	







								
