
	In modern times, the practice of abortion is more accesible than in 
previous epoques, but it continues being a controversial topic. Nowadays, 
this practice is accepted by many people, but there are still others that do 
not agree with it or accept it, in very especific situations. The abortion 
consists on ending with a pregnancy in its first weeks of gestation. It is 
important to point out that there are two classes of abortion: it could be a 
miscarriage or it could be a therapeutic abortion, and we are going to deal 
obviously, with the second one. In this essay I am going to review a variety 
of opinions about abortion and then, I will critique some of these 
perspectives.
	To begin with, there are people who are in favour of abortion under 
several circumstances. Many people are in favour of abortion in case of 
rape, because they think that a child should be conceived with love. But 
there is contrary opinions, like the opinion of a girl called Susan:<Q> <R>.
Other people think that abortion could be acceptable in the case that, the 
woman would be very young, and she can not face the responsability of a

person in charge of her. Some people also accept abortion if the woman is 
in danger because of the pregnacy. In my opinion, the first argument is very 
reasonable because if a woman is raped, I think she must have the right to 
decide if she wants to continue or she rather interrupt the pregnancy; that 
person has been conceived by force, so maybe he/she can bring to the 
mother bad memories if she decide to have it. I guess that the second 
argument is rather convincing too becuase, a young girl is not prepared to 
look after a child. She is not mature enough to take such responsability and 
also her education must be interrupted, so it is something bad for her in all 
aspects. The third argument on my view, also make sense because the first 
thing to take into account, is the mother's health before the person that is 
inside of her. I think that in this case abortion is also acceptable.
	In addition to this, there are more points of view which consider 
abortion as a possibility. Some people could think that if a woman becomes 
pregnant and she has used a contraception method, she could think about 
abortion because she has put means to avoid it. Other people think that, in 
the case that a women has not money and she knows that she can not 
maintain her child in appropiate conditions, it could be reasonable to her to 
abort. In relation to this, economist Steven Levitt of Stanford Law School 
and co-author John Donhue III of the University of Chicago think:<Q> <R>.

Another opinion in favour could be that, if a woman has a sexual relation 
with a man, she becomes pregnant and the father does not want to occupy 
of her child, she may be does not feel capable of exercising as a mother 
alone. Another possible argument could be that a women knows by the 
doctors, that the fetus would be malformed, and she would rather abort than 
to have a child with a lot of physical and psyquical problems. It seems to 
me that the first argument is very logical, in the sense that if you use 
protection, you do it because you want to avoid a pregnancy, and if the 
method fails you have not any fault, just bad luck. In my opinion, the 
second argument is really acceptable because, if the women take the 
determination of aborting, it would be a responsible decission, thinking 
about the child. I think that if that woman knows that she can not give her 
child a good life, should the woman make her child suffer from necessites 
that she can not provede him/her? In relation with the quotation, I think that 
the writers are very extremist because, a person can be poor but this does 
not imply to be violent or commit crimes, like they suggest. On my view, 
the third argument has certain weakness because if the woman feels that
she can not carry the responsability of a child alone, although her partner 
would leave her, she could ask for help to her parents or friends and avoid
the possibility of abortion. I strongly believe that the last argument is very 
difficult to deal with. If a doctor would tell a woman that her child is 
malformed, it could be a normal reaction that the woman think about of 
abortion, because these kind of children have a lot of problem when they 
are born.
	There are obviously a lot of arguments against abortion too. An 
important point related to abortion could be the question of, in which 
moment life begins. Some people think that a person is not considered a 
human being, until the moment of the birth. However other people think 
that inside of the mother is already a human being and it can not be 
discriminated as something that has not life. Other people think that 
whether the woman who is pregnant, considers what is inside of her as a 
human being or not, she has the right to decide if she wants to have it or 
not; at least it is her body. I think that the first argument is really 
controversial; in my opinion, what begins to grow inside of a pregnant 
woman is a human being but also is rather illogical that if many people 
consider it a crime, law does not punish abortion. In the other hand, I guess 
that if law would ban it, it could be a risk for women, because they must be 
obligued to abort in illegal cliniques, which is very dangerous. The second 
argument is reasonable, because we have to take into account that women 
carry the babies inside of themselves during nine months. As the 
philosopher Judith Jarvis Thomson said:<Q> <R>.
In relation to this I think that women have the freedom to decide if they 
want to go on or not with the pregnancy and the rest of people shoul accept 
her decission.
	Another important point of view could be the moral aspect of 
abortion. Many people could think that abortion is something inmoral. 
They  could think that you are acting against the proper nature of human 
beings. Moreover, some people could think that life is something that you 
can not controll or decide over it. An example of this could be the 
Catholics, they think that if you have sexual relationships is in order to 
procreate, so the abortion is a practice without sense and inmoral for them. 
As Pope Pius XI comments in his encyclical on Christian marriage:
<Q> <R>.
It seems to me that, the first argument has to do with each individual. I 
think that many people could consider abortion as something bad or 
inmoral, but sometimes you could find yourself in a situation in which 
there is no other way to follow. In relation to the Catholic thought, I 
understand that they consider life above all things, but I guess that their 
belief is a little bit extreme. In our society sex is something that is practised 
for its pleasure and not only in order to procreate, so the Catholic church 
should accept the possibility of abortion in some cases. I think that the 
Catholics should understand that, our society has evolved in terms of 
values, and we consider abortion as a possible option. There are also other 
people that do not consider abortion a good option because later can cause 
you a lot of problems. Some people think that if you have a therapeutical 
abortion, you have more possibilities of contracting a breast cancer. As 
Doctor Joel Birnd says:<Q> <R>.
Other people think that after having an abortion it is possible to suffer a 
miscarriage if you have complications in your therapeutical abortion. 
	Another important point could be that many people think that, after 
an abortion you could suffer of infertility, mostly in women that decide to 
have a late abortion. In my opinion the three arguments are reasonable. 
They explain some complications that you could have in case of abortion, 
but I think that, in some situations, although there would be a lot of 
disadvantages and risks, women have not other another option. In addition 
to this many of these risks are not proved. I think that women who have 
had an abortion, has as many possibilities as any women of contracting 
these diseases.
	In conclusion, this essay has presented different perspectives of 
abortion. There are opinions that accept abortion under some 
circumstances, for instance in case of rape, that the woman who is pregnant 
would be very young or in case of using a contraception method that fails. 
In the other hand, there are also opinions against this practice, Catholic 
thought that consider life above the rest of things, another opinion is that 
can provoke diseases in the future or the fact that abortion is considered an 
inmoral deed. Taking into account all the points of view, it might be 
reasonable to think about the advantages and disadvantages that abortion  
could imply, and then decide what to do.

 
 
 
 


7

