

	The question of when is acceptable to have sex has always been a 
controversial topic to deal with. Although the moral values and thoughts 
have changed a lot, people still have different opinions, some people are 
against the sex before marriage like the catholic followers, and also there 
are people who are in favour of it. The sex is a very intimate relationship 
between two persons that, according to some people should be reserved 
until the day they get married; nevertheless other people think that, 
although you are single, is not something bad if you feel good with a 
person. In this essay I will discuss the different points of view that exist in 
relation with the sex before or after marriage.

      Some people would argue that, to have sex with a person who is not 
your husband or your wife, is something sinful and dirty. This conservative 
opinion, usually are related to some groups of people such as the Catholic 
or the Baptist followers. They think that, sex has to be practised only with 
your partner in order to have children, and not for the pleasure that can 
provide. Moreover they establish that, if you have sex with someone before 
you get married, you commit a mortal sin according to the laws of God. 
      

 As Jeff Brown argues:<Q> <R>. This seems to be a logical argument for the people who follow these 
religions, however this belief is against the freedom of every individual. 
Each person must have the right to decide what to do with her or his body, 
and practise sex if he/she desires to do it, whether they are married or not. 
In addition to this, the fact that, if you practise sex before marriage you 
commit a mortal sin, is something that goes against the human beings, 
because sex is something natural in everyone. Moreover, it seems that these 
people do not think about the topic, they just obey the rules without 
thinking what they feel or desire.
      In the other hand, it is reasonable to argue that, other people think 
that if you respect the other person and you feel attracted by her/him, it is 
not bad to have sex, although you are not married. They think that if both 
parts of the couple are agree, they can have sex just to have a good time. 
Furthermore it is something that each individual can decide without taking 
into account any rule to follow, simply when they want to do it. As Lisa S. 
<Q> <R>.
This argument seems to make sense because it respects all the ways of 
thinking: people who rather do it after marriage and people who do not care 
when it takes place. However, this freedom to practise sex could provoke 
that people make it without thinking about the consequences. Many people 
have sex with unknown people and they do not practise safe sex, and this 
ends up with sexually transmitted diseases or with a not desired pregnancy; 
so it is important to be free to decide what to do with your body, but also 
you have to be responsible of what you are doing. Moreover you also have 
to take into account the opinion of your partner and respect her or his limits 
as well as yours. 
      
	A possible midpoint to argue could be that, there are people that 
although their beliefs would not accept sex without being married, they 
practise it. This change of mind could be due to the fact that, a person fall 
in love with someone and their attraction and fidelity make them think that 
in the future, they will get married; as a result, they practise sex with a true 
feeling for the other person and they consider that is right. This is an 
example of this point of view: <Q> <R>.
However, this point of view has certain weakness, because if your beliefs 
are really authentic, you will not practise sex because it will be a sin.
In the other hand, this argument could also make sense because, although 
the couple have a series of beliefs, if they are sure that their relationship is 
faithful and real, they will practise sex without feeling that their act is 
something bad. Anyway, they have to be careful because if they practise 
sex, and finally their relationship ends, both partners could feel badly with 
themselves.

	In other groups of people, like gypsies or Muslims, only women are 
discriminated. This means that the important thing is, to keep the virginity 
of women until they get married, however men can do whatever they want. 
In addition to this, in the wedding's day, some women members practise a 
tradition to the bride in order to prove that she is virgin: the gypsies 
practise it before the wedding's night, however the Muslims practise it after 
it.  They only care about the purity of women because they believe that if 
their wives are not virgin, this would be a dishonour for the family. This 
aspect is explained in this project: <Q> <R>.
Although their societies try to avoid it, many women begin to have their 
own ideas and they talk about them with freedom. This is the case of an 
Orthodox Muslim girl called Sania, who gave her point of view about sex 
before or after marriage, and created a lot of controversy:
 <Q> <R>.

 Moreover, an important difference in contrast with Catholic religion is that 
their purpose of sex, apart from the procreation, is also to enjoy. 
This argument is rather illogical because the rules that they follow, have to 
be applied to men and women; it is unfair that women have to keep their 
virginity until the wedding night and men can have sex whenever they 
want. These groups have to give equality to their followers; the same rules 
to all of them, whether they decide to have sex before or after marriage 
because if they do not, they would have a chauvinist thought that is 
unacceptable in our times. Furthermore, the practises that they do with the 
brides to prove their virginity, could be traditions but they are something 
humiliating for women. The most striking point is that women who belong 
to these groups permit this lack of equality, so if they do not try to improve 
this situation, it is very difficult that things would change.

	 To sum up, this essay has presented the different points of view that 
could be argued about sex before or after marriage. In the one hand, people 
who have a series of beliefs and rather wait until the wedding's night, on 
the other hand, people who practise sex when they desire to do it; a   
midpoint about that, there are some people that have beliefs, but if they find 
a real love, they will practise sex before they get married, and the last one 
that explains the point of view of some groups that discriminate women, 
and make them keep their virginity until the wedding day. Considering all 
these points, it might be reasonable that every individual do whatever they 
believe in, and in this way, they feel well with themselves. 




