 



      Two years ago, the United States of America began what they called a 
preventive attack over Irak. The United States justified their attack affirming that there 
was proof that Irak was in possession of massive destruction weapons, a kind of 
chemical weapon banned by U.S.A., and therefore, they had to take control on the 
country to ensure freedom and safety in the world. Some countries supported this 
preventive attack while others were against it. After almost three years of conflict, no 
massive destruction weapons have been found, Saddam Hussein is on trial, and Irak is 
still on chaos. Was the invasion necessary? Is Irak now a safer country? Did U.S.A. 
liberate or invade Irak? In this essay I intend to analyse the different points of view of 
this matter.

      Saddam Hussein became president of Irak in 1979 and he immediately got rid of 
any oposition: <Q> <R>. Irak was definitely a country that needed 
international intervention for a long time. According to a former Iraqi diplomat who 
described Saddam's rule in one sentence: <Q> <R>. 
In my opinion, Europe and U.S.A. should have joined forces a long time ago to solve 
the problem of Irak, because a dictatorship cannot be allowed in the 21st century. 
However, I think that bombing Irak was not the best solution for the problem, as U.S.A. 
did; instead, I think that eliminating Saddam Hussein and controlling the country would 
have been enough.
	Many people in the United States were very furious because of what happened in 
the World Trade Center. They were thirsty for vengeance, and their president served it: 
<Q> <R>. Although I consider vengeance is a primary and natural feeling for 
human beings, I consider that feeling was manipulated by the American government, 
luring people to believe that war was necessary. I also think that relating directly the 
September 11th attacks with Irak was unfair, because Irak population were not guilty 
and they suffered a cruel and massive attack that caused hundreds of casualties.  
Moreover, I do not think that the government of U.S.A. acted upon desires of revenge, 
but under a careful strategy designed to invade a country full of petrol.

      The existence of weapons of mass destruction were the reason why U.S.A. 
attacked and invaded Irak. They presented a great number of proof that there were still 
weapons of mass destruction in Irak to convince them that the Irak menace was real and 
almost imminent. Months later, when the war had begun, the previously shown proof 
was revealed to be a hoax, but it had neither any consequences to the government, nor 
the war was stopped. From my point of view, U.S.A. had designed a plan to invade Irak 
and use their petrol at will, but they lacked the most important thing to start their plan: a 
reason. So I think they made it up, and they hoped everybody believed their tale, some 
did, and some did not, but the immense majority of people knew that the attack was 
inevitable, and that U.S.A. would do anything to invade it, even ignoring the United 
Nations. 
	Irak had certainly used weapons of mass destruction against Iran in the past, that 
is a fact, but the presence of that kind of weapons nowadays could not be proved. In 
contrast, the ones who really had weapons of mass destruction were the U.S.A., using 
 "white phosphorus" in Irak, which is a chemical that burns skin down to the bone and 
can not be extinguished with the use of water: <Q> <R>. I find it very hypocritical that the U.S.A., which began a war 
against an innocent country accusing them of having weapons of mass destruction, used 
this kind of weapons and now they admit it publicly. I think the whole world should 
create an alliance against the U.S.A. governement and make them be judged for their 
lies and crimes.

	However, while some people claim that Irak is in a much worse and chaotic 
situation than three years ago, others think that Irak is a now a free country. Before the 
attack, there was no democracy in Irak; Saddam Hussein was its permanent and a 
ruthless president, so something had to be done. After the attack, an election could be 
celebrated. Through history, stronger and more advanced societies have invaded other 
more primitive, and have transformed the primitive societies into relatively modern 
states. From my point of view, whether Irak will be seen as a modern society some 
years in the future is a mystery. I think that democracy cannot be impossed, but muy 
opinion is relative to my perception of reality, which is framed by my knowledge. 
Perhaps this is the only way that some societies evolve. The fact that we do not like how 
the world changes does not mean it is good or bad. Changes are sometimes inevitable, 
and nature has shown us that the strongest survive and the weakest die, so nature does 
not share our view of  justice.

	To conclude, Irak is in some ways better than three years ago, and in others 
worse. They were attacked without mercy using a bad lie as an excuse, displaying 
weapons of mass destruction, killing innocent people, and stealing their petrol, their 
main source of income. That is clearly an unjustified invasion. On the other hand, no 
one fears anymore the tirany of Saddam Hussein, and the first signs of democracy, such 
as an election, are begining to appear in Irak. We should not forget that, in many cases, 
invasions have proved to be beneficious, because that is how former societies became 
part of bigger empires in the past. Although I dislike war very much, maybe it is the 
only way of evolving for some societies.













 
 
 
 


4

