                          

       There are many ways to deal with criminals after they are sentenced to prison, 
and each country has chosen the one they think is better for its society. Recently, the 
effectivity of prison has been discussed in Spain because of its apparent lack of success 
in turning criminals into useful people for society. In Spain, when a criminal is sent to 
prison, there are plenty of things he can do to shorten his penalty - and even get some 
weekends of freedom - and very few opportunities to verify whether a criminal shows 
remorse or not from what he did in the past. In this essay I intend to point out the 
different aspects that, in my opinion, make prison fail.
       An undeniable proof that prison is not effective is the repetition of many former 
convicts in commiting crimes. The way I see it, when a child makes something wrong 
and is punished, he learns what is wrong and what is right, and learns from it. But when 
an adult commits a crime, in most of cases he knows he's doing something wrong, but 
he does it, no matter the consecuences. Staying in prison for some months or years will 
not teach anything good to somebody who commited a crime willingly. 
       Worst of all, prison may turn a man into a worse criminal than he was before 
entering it. A convict lives among many people who have commited crimes probably 
similar as his, and even some worse ones. Prison has always been known as a place in 
which, crime, drugs and violence is everywhere. If there is any little chance that a 
person "turns from dark to the light" in prison, it is instantly erased while living in those 
conditions. Different levels of crimes (it is not the same stealing something to eat than 
killing a human being) deserve different levels of punishment. And this difference 
shouldn't be present only in the ammount of time in prison, but also in the conditions of 
life. This is not possible to do due the fact that there is not enough money to spend on a 
prison, therefore there are very few measures or ways of controlling the people jailed 
there.
       On the other hand, there are cases where a social reinsertion is possible. Many 
people know the case of "El Lute", a Spanish thief that spent some years in prison 
studying a degree and became a lawyer. But we also shouldn't forget that a vast group 
of people who begin studying a university degree at prison are members of the Vasque 
terrorist group known as ETA, because they know that studying in prison helps shorten 
their penalties. Most disturbing of all is that some teachers of these students have 
claimed sometimes that they have been threatened with dead if these terrorists did not 
passed their degrees; other teachers do not because they are too afraid of them and pass 
their exams without telling it to the authorities.
       When a judge sends a criminal to jail, he does it knowing that they will not 
spend all the time he has dictated in prison. It is alarmingly frequent that criminals can 
make their time of imprisonment shorter only because they "behave", clean their cell, or 
do some work at the jail's laundry. It is not right that a murderer that was sent to jail for 
thirty years for killing innocent people is given a chance of leave prison only after ten 
years. It has been proved that some criminals act as if they were a new human being  to 
get some "freedom weekends" and after their first weekent out of prison they never go 
back to it, or much worse, they kill again; the only difference is that this time, those 
dead people could be alive if our laws (or judges) were not so weak.
       We shouldn't forget that prison takes freedom out from criminals so they 
normally spend there many years, and the conditions in many prisons are under an 
acceptable level. Human rights must be respected everywhere in the world if we are 
living under a democratic state, no matter the prisoners deserve it or not. Unfortunately, 
maintaining a prison full of people is not cheap, and I don't think non-jailed citizens 
would agree an uprise of taxes to increase the conditions of convicts. Prison, in some 
cases, allows some criminals to live with the same comforts as if they were in their own 
home. This was the case of a former director of the Spanish police, Luís Roldán. He 
complained because a <Q>and incredibly got a TV, a DVD player and even a cell for his own. Needless to say, he 
didn't pay it; all Spanish people did it with part of our taxes. Knowing that, it's not hard 
to believe the story of a man who commited a robbery with a gun in one hand, in order 
to be sent to prison and leave his life as a begger. People in prison get food, clothes and 
a place to live for free and I think they should be made to earn it working, helping 
somehow other people, making something positive for society.
       To conclude, I have tried to show the failure of the system of imprisonment 
pointing out the fact that most exconvicts return to crime when they go out of prison, 
considering the awful reality that prison turn a man into a worse criminal than he was 
before entering it; and more important, something should be done with Spanish law, 
because criminals hardly spend all the time they were sentenced in prison. But we 
shouldn't forget that there are cases where a social reinsertion is possible and that, as 
human beings people jailed deserve that their human rights are respected. 

