Domestic violence and child abuse are not new social problems nor have they recently 
appeared, but on the contrary, they are both considered an accepted part of our culture, 
unfortunately. Over the course of human history thousands of children, as well as 
women, have suffered physically, psychologically and sexually as a result of acts of 
violence against them. However, it seems to be that in the last decades our society has 
witnessed a huge and alarming increase of domestic violence and new cases of child 
abuse appear everyday on TV. Incredibly, many judges claim that those who committed 
these `crimes' (as they must be considered such a thing) can not be found guilty, 
arguing excuses such as mental illness. Yet, I personally believe that such people should 
be judge just as any other criminal and I will even go so far as to show they can be even 
worse, since their actions produce in most cases permanent physical and mentally 
traumas to the victims.The strongest  argument that supports my viewpoint  deals with 
the fact that these abuses and acts of violence  have lots of repercussions for the victims. 
Indeed, child abuse has devastating consequences, affecting every aspect of a child's 
life: psychologically, physical, behavioural, academic, sexual, interpersonal, self-
perceptualand even spiritually. In some cases, the consequences are fatal <R>. At the same level, domestic violence may affect their social-
cognitive development competence. These facts reinforce my viewpoint about the duty 
of the judges to try those perpetrators of violence and abuses just the same way a 
murderer or a terrorist would be judged. However, there still lot of people who believe 
that these cases are a bit more complex than just what we hear about them on TV, and 
ask for understanding for the batterer or the abuser. They argue that a high incidence of 
violent men and their victims ( women) have been raised in violent homes and 
witnessed domestic violence as children <R>. Many people 
believe that growing up in a violent family increases the likelihood of becoming an 
abused wife, in the case of women, while men are more likely to be violent in their 
adolescent and adult relationships. Some researches point out that ongoing conflict 
between parents as children has a profound influence on adolescent development and 
future adult behaviour, and can be the strongest predictor of violent delinquency. These 
children tend to believe that violence is an appropriate way of resolving conflict in 
human relationships. Nevertheless, it is emphasised that not all children who lived with 
abusive relationships will repeat the experience <R>.   In 
fact, they are the ones who should know better than anybody else how awful, unfair and 
traumatic these abuses and acts of violence towards others can be. It appears to me that 
there should not be an excuse for these abuses, since there are as well many other 
people than have suffered for years the same abuses and the same violence and far from 
these batterers, they have set their life towards supporting others who are suffering now 
as they did before. I strongly believe it shouldn't be used as a reason to excuse such 
terrible acts, but on the contrary it should reinforce their guilt as they are making others 
suffer the same way they did.Another of the arguments that supports my point of view, 
concerns with the grade of importance that mistreatment and abuses are given in 
relation with other types of crimes, such as illegal prostitution, robbery and assault, pick 
pocketing, piracy and other 'crimes` which, in my opinion, are not as relevant as those 
which imply abuses and violence, specially towards children. I personally believe, 
violence and abuses can not be considered at the same level as a crime which many 
times is based on a need, whether due to lack of money, of a permanent job or lack of 
food (even tough I don't mean to say  that ALL people who steal or commit piracy do it 
pushed by a need). I think those crimes are irrelevant if we consider the fact that abuse 
and domestic violence implies physical and psychological damage while illegal 
prostitution or piracy do not. Indeed, the purpose of stealing and prostitution is far from 
damaging anybody while domestic violence is based exactly in that purpose. Moreover, 
our laws seem to care much more about the know as 'top manta` and about cleaning our 
streets from prostitutes, who are just trying to earn enough to live on, than about 
mistreated wives and abused children. In fact, it wasn't until few years ago that our 
society became aware of the magnitude of this problem. On the other hand, it is also 
true that, according to several researches, violence victims do not usually report the 
husband to the authorities for child abuse, due probably to reasons of fear of reprisals to 
counter charges by the husband. As a consequence of this, health and welfare 
professionals feel the frustration of not being able to intervene legally to protect child 
witnesses from extreme incidents of domestic violence unless there was also evidence 
of child abuse. That is, many incidents could be avoid if the victims reported such 
abuses to authorities.However, it still being a shame that Law should not get involved in 
these cases until a murder has taken place, as it happens in our country. When a murder 
takes place as a result of years of enduring mistreatment, or we suddenly hear a case of 
child abuse by a member of the family or a neighbour, there's people who start 
speculating on the possibility of a mental illness.  In many cases, the judge can not try 
the accused because he argues illness. In my opinion, these batterers and abusers do 
exactly know what they are doing when committing these crimes. There is no single, 
definitive cause or reason for child abuse, but the perpetrators know perfectly that any 
child may be vulnerable to being abused. Many experts believe that child abuse is 
linked to inequalities among people in our society and the power imbalance between 
adults and children. A child is usually in a position of dependence on his or her abuser, 
and has little or no power compared to the abuser <R>.  
The batterer or abuser is concerned about this fact and about the child's vulnerability to 
abuse and takes advantage of it. Indeed, many children sent in the past to institutions 
experienced abuse as well as physical violence. Arguing illness is not enough to make 
the victims forget about all they have passed through during the time these abuses have 
been taking place. Once more, we have to bear in mind all the physical and 
psychological disorders that can de produced by these acts.I strongly believe there is no 
convincing nor possible excuse from my point of view, to forgive a damage caused by 
someone to an innocent and vulnerable being as a child is. Even tough he/her might be 
mentally ill, the damage would already be done.  As a conclusion, what I tried to do 
with this essay, is to show just some of the countless damages and disorders domestic 
violence and abuse can produce to a human being, specially to children, and the 
injustice of our Law concerning these crimes, in order to prove that batterers and 
abusers are not being treated as they should:  as real criminals who can destroy by these 
acts of violence their victim's life. I strongly agree with the idea of imposing stronger 
penalties to these people, apart from the assumption  that they might be mentally ill or 
not. I have no doubt about their consciousness of their acts and I personally believe the 
victims would support a trial where their abusers would be judge as any other criminal.	
			
