								        

Censorship  has  been  a  long-standing  issue  of  controversy  for centuries. Nowadays, 
the  debate  surrounding  the  subject  of  censorship  is  still  having  radically  opposite 
and  contradictory  viewpoints.  Those  conflicting  perspectives  depend  basically  on  
the  different  cultures  and  ideologies  of  each  country.  According  to  the  Article  19  
of   the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights <Q> <R>.  In  the  last  decades, our 
society  has  approached  a  huge  level  of  freedom  in  almost  every  aspect  of  life: 
freedom  of  expression  and  speech,  of  worship,  of  the  press  and  even  sexual
freedom.  Insuring  the  right  to  freedom  of  expression  is  considered  one  of the 
main  foundations  for  the  respect  of  human  rights  and  creating  an  environment  
for democracy, transparency  and  accountability.  Nevertheless, while most western
countries  have  successfully  achieved  great  changes  and  progresses  referring  to  all 
this  process  of  liberation,  as  would  be  the  case  of  the  Netherlands,  other 
countries,  which  are  more  conservatives  and  traditionalists  in  their  ideology,  opt 
for  censorship  as  in  the  case  of   Arabic  countries  such  as  Egypt.  At the same  
time,  there  are  countries  as  well  that  adopt  a  double  position  or  perspective  
about the issue. This last example might be perhaps the case of the United States. In  
this  essay  I  intend  to  show  the  different  attitudes  and  feelings  people  may  have  
towards the  subject  of  censorship, by comparing  the cases  of  three  different 
countries:  the Netherlands, Egypt  and  the  United  States, as well as to demonstrate 
why  in  my  opinion  censorship  is  sometimes  demanded  in  certain  cases.
The  Netherlands  is  perhaps  one  of  the  western  countries that  better  exemplifies 
the  model  of  a  liberal  state.  Its  government  defends  an  attitude  of  support  to  all 
kind  of  liberty,  whether  it  is  of  expression,  religious  or  sexual. <Q> <R>.  A  liberal  attitude  is  also  perceived  in  their  free  ideology  
when  legalizing  prostitution,  euthanasia  and  consumption  of  marijuana.  Indeed  it  
is  still nowadays  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  permits  euthanasia  to  take  
place, while  in  many  other  countries   many  paraplegic  and  people  who  suffer  
from  terminal  illness  or  cancer  have  to  continue  struggling  to  achieve  such  
privilege.  These  people  argue  that  they  should  have  the  right  to  decide  by  
themselves  whether  they  desire  to  die  or  not,  and  it  is  in  fact  in  this  country  
where  lot  of  them  are  given  that  opportunity.  In  my  opinion,  this  liberty  people  
in  the  Netherlands  have  to  choose  whether  they  want  to  live  or  not,  is  a  point  
in  favour  of  the   liberty  of  opinion  and  self  independence  that  exists  in  this  
country.  In  the  Netherlands  there  is  no  censorship  in  any  sense,  but  on  the  
contrary  sex,   pornography,  prostitution,  drugs,  are  all  available  at  any  time,  
since   prostitution  and  marijuana  are  both  legalised  in  the  country,  as  it  has  
already  been  said  before. Pornographic  magazines  can  be  bought  in  any  
bookshop, sexual  scenes appear  everyday  in  television  and  pornographic  movies 
can  be  found  at  any  video club.  However, it  is  true  as  well  that  freedom  of  
speech  is  also  strictly  respected.  People  is  allowed  to  express  their  own  personal  
opinion  freely,  without  any  control  on  part  of  the  government  nor  any  type  of  
censorship  or  punishment.  All  these  facts  seem  very  convincing  when  dealing  
with  the  question  of  whether  we  should  imitate  them  or  not,  in  that  sense  of  
total  liberty  and  freedom.  It  is  true  indeed  that  it  is  one  of  the  most  liberal  
states  in  the  whole  world   and   that  has  better  reached  to  a  complete  level  of  
freedom  in  all  senses.  It  has  successfully  achieved  great  progresses  with  all  
concerning  with  liberties,  but  they  have  lost  respect  for  religious  and  moral  
values.  Not  everybody  agree  with  that  liberation.  There  is  still  people, especially  
old  ones,  who  are  more  traditionalists  and  who  find  it  a  dissolute  behaviour.  In  
relation  to  that  lost  of  morality,  I  should  mention  that  in  the   Netherlands  there  
are  especial  theatres  for  adults,  that  is  specific  cinemas  dedicated  only  to  
pornographic  movies  where  men  are  even  allowed  to  take  prostitutes  in.  I  
personally  feel  after  analysing  all  these  facts,  that  this  extremely liberal  attitude  
could  contribute  to  lose  some  very  important  moral  values,  as  well  as      
religious  ones  in  their  society.  They  have  overdone  liberty,  reaching   an   
exaggerated   level   of   freedom   which   has   turned   into   rather   licentiousness.  
Nevertheless,  it  is  also  true   that  the  freedom  of  expression,  press  and  opinion 
they  have  achieved  is  an  obvious  example  of  the  model  of  the  perfect  
democratic  country, where  every  citizen  may  participate  without  being  pressed  or  
controlled  by  the  government.  

On  the  other  hand  there  is  the  case  of  most  Arabic  countries  which  do  not  
enjoy  that  possibility  of  freedom  in  hardly  any  sense.  Indeed,  it  was  emphasized 
by  the  Arab  Human Development Report for 2002, the low ranking of Arab countries 
in  the  world  concerning  respect  for  freedom  of  expression <R>.  In  Egypt, 
violations  against  freedom  of  expression  are  constants,  especially  against 
journalists  and  those  working  in   the  intellectual  field,  such  as  writers,  university  
students  and  intellectuals  or  teachers.  According   to  a  recent  report  published  by 
ARTICLE  19  entitled  The  Egyptian  Predicament:  Islamists,  The  State  and 
Censorship,  <Q> <R>.  The  government  does  not  only 
regulate  strictly  all  forms  of  opposition,  but  also  maintains  absolute  control  over 
the  broadcasting  system  and  allows  no  privately  owned  television  channels,  such  
as  satellite <R>.  It   determines  who  may  issue  publications,  at  what  
price,  and  the  number  of  copies.  Strict  laws  have  been  enacted  which  allow  for  
extreme  punishment  in  cases  of  defamation  and  libel.  In  fact,  it  was  in  May  
1995  that  the  parliament  adopted  a  press  law  by  which  it  was  forbidden  the  
criticizing  of  public  officials.  <Q> <R>. It is a clear violation of the Egyptian 
constitution and article 19 of the International  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 
(ICCPR).  During  2002  many  cases   of  journalists  in  front  of  Court,  exposed  to   
punishments restricting their freedom took place in Egypt.  Such is the case of Ahmed 
Haridy, a journalist in the Mithaq al-Araby Newspaper, an  electronic newspaper 
published on the Internet, that was sentenced to six months  imprisonment and a fine of 
one  thousand  Egyptian  Pounds  in  the  hearing  on  29  April   2002,   accused   of   
criticizing   the   present   President,   Hosny   Mubarak <R>.  Many  intellectuals  
writers  and  students  do  not  agree  with  this  attitude  the  government  adopts  
against  freedom  of  expression. They  claim  it  is  an act  of  repression  against  the  
Egyptian  people.  However,  most  people  in Egypt  believe  it  is  the  right  and  the  
duty  of  the  government  and  the  religious  leaders  to  carry  out  this stance  in  
favour  of  censorship, because  they  have  been  chosen  to  decide  whether  something  
may  be  wrong  or  right.  Personally,  I agree with  those  who  belong  to  the  
intellectual  field  in  the  fact  that  the  government  is  practicing  repression  over  the  
Egyptian  people.  Freedom  of  expression  in  a country, especially  concerning  to  
politic  themes,  is  a  right  every  citizen  must  have  by  law.  In  my  opinion  it  is  a  
pity  that  there  could  be  people  who  are  still believing   their  opinions  should  be  
controlled   by  others,  especially  by  the  government.
 
Still,  censorship  in  Egypt  does  not  only  lie   in  the  press  nor  concerns  only
with  political issues,  but  it  governs  all  life  fields:  censorship  is  presented in 
teenage  magazines  (which  are  censured in  order  not  to  have  any  sexual,  erotic  
content,  reference  or  scene), in  music, cinemas and theatres,  young fashion...etc. 
Allaa  Hamed, a novelist  and government tax official, was sacked and is at present 
serving  one-year sentence for  publication of a book which a court judged immoral 
because it  contains sexually  explicit material.  Pornography  is  obviously  banned  and  
prostitution  is  considered  a  sin  that  might  be  punish  with  death  penalty  
(wittyworld.com). Movies  are  checked  before  showing  it  and  all  scenes  which  
may  remind  sex  are  immediately  deleted.  Most  people,  especially  women,  
religious  leaders  and  old  traditional  people,  agree  with  this  and  even  defend the  
decision  of  the  government  of  doing  such  thing.  It  seems  to me a  shame that acts 
such as  these might  still  taking  place  in our present society. I  believe  there  is  
nothing  wrong  in  showing   a scene  where  two  people  are  kissing  each  other,  it  
is  not  a scene  of  an  explicit  sexual  act. In  fact,  what  I  personally think  is  that  
repression  has  made  them  become  dirty  mind  and  that  is  the  reason  why  they  
need  to  delete  any  scene  where  they  might  perceive  sex.  They  are  so  repressed  
that  they  see   sin   everywhere.  From  my  own  viewpoint,  Egypt  can  not  be  
longer  considered  a  democracy  but  rather  a  dictatorship, since freedom of press  
and  expression   is  required  for  a  democracy  to  take  place,  and far from that, the 
reality  in  this  country  is  that  censorship  rules  in  every  aspect  of   their  lives.


The  United  States  of  America  might  be  the  best  example  of  a  "middle point"
Perspective  concerning  the  subject  of  censorship.  This  is  because  while  they 
claim  to  be  a  nation  proud  of  their  level  of  freedom  and  respect  for  all  human 
rights,  numerous  contradictions  refute  this. They  are a nation that claims and 
supports a policy of  freedom in all senses. However, the reality is that while they are 
against censorship they  actually put it into practice in many aspects of their lives.  What  
they  actually  do  is  practicing  a  double  moral.  We are extremely familiar with 
censorship in the US nowadays. Censorship is most commonly found in cinemas,
where the different categories of films are usually rated, as happens in many other
countries, in order to differentiate the target groups of audience, as well as to prevent
minors from watching movies that involve too much violence or sex. The CIPA law
began as a measure to protect children from what some in the US feel are the harmful
effects of their viewing <Q> on the Internet. According to some civil libertarians in the US,
CIPA is nevertheless a measure that has gone too far. In an attempt to censor children,
the legislators ended up censoring adults, a measure which would tend to destroy the
entire society, parents and children and the "rights" of both, along with everything else.
Therefore CIPA is being opposed strongly by those civil libertarians in the US
<R>.  Many adults  do  not  agree  with  the  CIPA  law  because  it  
does  not  respect  the  right  of  liberty  to  choose  whether  they  want  to  watch  an  
adult  movie  or  not. They  claim the CIPA  law  has  gone  too far  by  avoiding  in  
television  all  movies  which  may  contain  any  type  of  sexual  reference,  erotic  or
violent  scene.  They  argue  that  parents  should  be  the  ones  who  controlled  what  
their  children  can  or  cannot  watch  on  TV  while  they  should  have  the  right  to  
choose  what  they  want  to  see.  I  agree  with  these  people  in the  sense  that  the  
ones  who  should  control  their  children  should  be  the parents  and  that  they  have  
the  right  to  see  whatever  they  want. Moreover, they seem to be a hypocritical 
society, in the sense that they pretend to care excessively about censoring violence, 
among others, but at the same time it is one of the easiest countries to find a teenage 
with a gun. 

In the US  there can be found as well two different perspectives  on the matter.  While 
many people feel that a child's viewing such violent scenes, on television, movies, 
magazines and on the Internet, will warp that child's mind, alter the child's behaviour 
and contribute to society's more violent and harmful characteristics, many others argue 
that seeing a thing depicted visually can provide much of tensions and fears. Both 
arguments  seem  convincing,  nevertheless I  personally  agree  with  the  idea  that  
letting  a  child  get  used  to  watch  such  violent  scenes  may  have  bad  
repercussions  in  his  behaviour.  According  to  this,  there  should  be  a control  over  
what   children  may see or  not.  However,  it  is  also  true  that  the US settle in favour 
of freedom of expression for adults, since freedom of  expression is seen as a civil 
liberty crucial establishment of democracy. <Q> <R>. But in order to respect this liberty, other very important  values do 
occasionally conflict with this. Among them, religious values and traditional cultural 
practices. The US society has had difficulties in reconciling  traditional views  and 
religious values with the view that information should be free, open and  uncensored. 

To summarize, what I tried to do in this essay is showing the different attitudes towards 
the subject of  censorship  in the world,  by comparing  the  perspective  of  three  
different  countries  in  the   fields  of   press,  sexuality  and   movies. The perspective 
of each of these countries on this matter differ from the viewpoint in the Netherlands, 
which opposes to censorship as a stance against human rights, in Egypt, which is 
actually in favour of such policy and the United States, which adopts a "double" policy, 
against and in favour of censorship when it is required. I  think  we  should remember 
that, the right to freedom of expression is considered one of the main foundations for 
the respect of human rights, and therefore it should be respected by every government in 
all senses.  Every  person  should  have  the  right  to  control  by themselves their  own 
sexuality,  opinion  or  decisions. 



















