For centuries, the debate about premarital sex has been the subject of endless 
controversy between the Church and other social groups. Even though our society has 
successfully achieved great progress throughout the history referring to all kind of 
sexual issues, there are still two main perspectives which contrast each other. Thos 
perspectives are: that of the Church, who is clearly against premarital sex, and that of 
the people who support the idea of having sex before marriage. There are as well 
middle-viewpoints of people who believe there are special cases in which it could be 
right to practise sex not being yet married, whereas there are many others in which 
people should wait.  In this essay I intend to show the different perspectives and 
arguments people give concerning the subject of premarital sex.


Most time, the strongest arguments against premarital sex are those maintained by 
religious people. The Church, supported by what is written in the Bible, promotes 
abstinence before marriage. Abstinence is God's only  policy when it comes to 
premarital sex. They believe abstinence saves lives, protects babies, gives sexual 
relations the proper value and most important honours God. Most members of the 
Church argue that sex before marriage is just as wrong as adultery and other forms of 
sexual immorality, because they all involve having sex with someone you are not 
married to. It is seen as a synonymous of lust, a sin. According to what the Bible says: 
`sex between a husband and his wife is the only form of sexual relations that God 
approves of' (Hebrews 13:4). It is stated as well in the Bible, that the primary 
purpose of sex is not pleasure, but rather reproduction and that God does not outlaw sex 
before marriage to rob us of pleasure, but to protect us from unwanted pregnancies and 
children born to parents who do not want them or are not prepared for them. There are 
many people as well who are against premarital sex but whose arguments have nothing 
to do with religion. Some of the arguments used by these people who condemned sex 
before marriage include the idea of losing the honeymoon's value if the couple have 
already engaged in premarital sex. They claim there is nothing special to look forward 
because they have already engaged in sex before marriage and all the expectations of a 
blissful discovery of each other sexually would have been taken away. They also argue 
that when couples engage in premarital sex they tend to stay together for the sex and not 
because they share common goals, interests and values. Although some of these
arguments may appear to be persuasive to many people, there are others which have 
certain weaknesses. It is absurd, for example, that the fact of having sex with a person 
would suddenly push you to loose any kind of initial interest, passion and novelty for 
that person, specially if you love her/ him. If having premarital sex means the lost of the 
honeymoon's value, it would perhaps mean that people's unique expectation about it , 
concerns just the fact that they are going to have sex, and that view of marriage seems 
even worse. 
On the other hand, there are many other people who are in favour of the idea of 
practising sex before marriage. Whereas the Church finds new arguments to condemn 
premarital sex, their opinion is quite converse of theirs. They find these arguments 
illogical and from non-realistic perspectives. They don't believe that having sex before 
marriage can cause the lost of common interests, goals and values, but on the contrary, 
they believe sex can increase passion, desire and interest in a couple. It usually 
reinforces the relationship and brings new emotions and feelings to the couple. They 
claim there is nothing wrong in having sex with the person you love, though you are not 
yet married. There are couples who have been together for many years but who are not 
married. These couples feel they are already prepared to have sex because they are 
mature and they are sure of their true feelings. Moreover they defend the fact that  
everyone should have the chance to choose if it is or it is not proper to have premarital 
sex. Honeymoon will still having its meaning despite the couple has had already 
premarital sex: it is just the first night after marriage and it will be so even though it will 
not be the first time you have sex with that person you just married. There is even 
people who prefer to experiment sex with their couple before marriage, to assure about 
their compatibility, since sex is, at the end, an important part of a relation within a 
couple. They encourage us to try to imagine how it would be for any of us to be with 
someone you do not like sex with, for the rest of our lives. They feel as well that 
abstinence, far from being positive, promotes repression. This argument seems to make 
sense, because sex is a physical need innate in human beings and the lack of it may have 
negative repercussions. 
There are also middle- viewpoints of people who believe that the perspective could 
change depending on the situation and the person. It is true indeed that virginity can be 
lost just once. It is a precious gift that you loose the minute you have sex and it is lost 
forever. There is lot of people who argues that having sex before marriage could be bad 
in the sense that loosing your virginity not being yet married, you run the risk of not 
ending up with that person and consequently you will not be allowed to give your whole 
self to the one you do eventually marry. In that case, it could be argued that it is much 
wiser to wait and experience each other for the first time without expectation of things 
that were before. However, many people think that having sex with a person you love 
can be as respectable as having sex within the marriage. They state that, at the end, 
what  really counts is that both persons respect and love each other, not the fact that they 
are or they are not married. Nevertheless, there are extreme cases in which, specially 
young people, should be careful. In many cases teenage girls who are not mature 
enough or prepared are pressured by older boys to have sex and later on they change 
their mind and regret what they have done. These points are rather convincing, although 
in comparison to each other the first one seems to be weaker, since when you marry to 
someone you are already giving your whole self to that person for the rest of your life, 
and so, he/she should not really care what you have done before but what you will do 
from then onward.
To summarize, there are several arguments concerning the subject of premarital sex, but 
two main central perspectives that contrast to each other: that of the Church and the 
conservative social groups and that of the ones that have a more liberal approach to 
premarital sex. Between the arguments that support the first one's viewpoint are 
included those which make reference to the Scriptures of the Bible as well as traditional 
perspectives. On the other hand, the arguments in favour of premarital sex defend the 
importance of respect, love and mature more than the importance of being married. On 
balance, sex should be a subject that everyone individually should meditate about, 
according to their beliefs, ideologies and preferences in life.
