One of the most important problem the world of sport is facing 
nowadays is doping ,which involves the conscious or unconscious use of performance 
enhancing drugs or the use of methods which can help an athlete increase his muscle 
mass <R>. Although this is not a recent problem-dating 
back to mid 19th century-the continual scientific and medical development has taken 
doping methods to another level ,thus urging the adoption of new rules and solutions 
against those who are willing to take these great risks. New legal actions are being put 
forward every year-banning new substances, enforcing punishments-but these actions 
only concern a small part of the extensive  world of doping. In this essay I intend to argue 
that,in my view, measures have to be taken so that the focus of  the fight against doping  
can also be extended to other fields strongly connected with it, not only focus on the 
athletes who use this method to better their results.                                                 Firstly, 
it seems to me that putting the entire blame on the athlete does not cover the entire 
problem of doping, nor does it prevent other athletes from being tempted to do the same. 
Under the existing regulations established by the World Anti-Doping Agency, 
punishments can only be applied to athletes and their support personnel ,with no 
whatsoever inquiry into the origin of the prohibited  substances found in their "bodily 
specimen" <R>. Some will argue that sporting governing 
bodies do not have any power over other fields connected with this area and they might 
be right .But ,in my opinion ,without a close assistance from such fields as science 
,research ,medicine or education there will be no proper fight against doping in sports. 
This way, only the athlete gets punished, allowing the 'the industry of doping 'to 
continue its sustained search for new victims, providing more athletes with prohibited 
drugs.                    
Secondly, I strongly believe that one very important field that helps the 
constant development of this practice is the world of marketing .Important brands and 
companies often use the image of world famous athletes to represent their products , 
paying for this service huge amounts of money. An athlete is always pushed towards the 
goal of wining the first prize ,it is the medal that counts ,the result lies at the centre of 
everything: Pierre de Coubertin' s world famous saying, the basis of modern Olympiads - 
"The important thing is to take part"- has now lost importance over the need to make as 
much money as possible and to see your face on the cover of important magazines . 
Although I am not against athletes making money on their hard work, I am absolutely 
against the loss of the spirit of fair competition in order to just become famous. Many 
athletes get lost in this game of money and fame and forget why they started playing that 
sport in the first place, forget about the values involved in sport.                                
Moreover, speaking personally ,I feel that medicine is the most important domain related 
to doping. In this respect ,there are 2 very important aspects. The first of these contains 
medicines created to cure different diseases ,medicines which everyone can buy in a 
pharmacy <R>. Although they have not been conceived to 
serve these kind of purposes, athletes use them to cheat. But the real battle should be 
held, in my view ,against the medics and laboratories which create medicine that enhance 
sporting performance, for the soul purpose of gaining money. For example ,there is the 
case of Kelli White ,double gold medalist in 2003 at the  Athletics World Championships 
,who was suspended for testing positive for a drug called THG, which was unknown at 
the time of the competition- an American coach sent a sample to the IAAF(International 
Association of Athletics Federation) and the body decided to retest the athletes for that 
drug, leading  to the suspension of  Kelli White (and the loss of her medals),as well as 
other American and British athletes. Thus, medicine seems to be always one step ahead 
of doping controls in spite of the collaboration of  different pharmaceutical companies. 
Consequently ,real measures should be taken to prevent this kind of  research which can 
only damage the values sport tries to promote.                                  
Education, it seems to 
me, is a domain which has not been exploited to its maximum potential. Although  the 
fight against doping has strengthened , the decision is still in the hands of the athlete : he 
is the one who, after all, takes the drug, in spite of all the risks .For my part, I believe that 
there is not enough awareness of the consequences of using  drugs. On the one hand, the 
eventual damage it does to your health is a very important issue, and every athlete should 
be very aware of that, especially as there are many examples of athletes which have dealt 
with serious health problems because of this or have even died, as was the case, in as 
early as 1866, of the  Welsh cyclist Arthur Linton, who died during the race Paris-
Bordeaux <R>. On the other hand, as athletes very often represent models for 
young kids or for the society in general, they should be very aware of their status and of 
their responsibility towards them. For example, the Italian cyclist Marco Pantani killed 
himself for not being able to handle the rejection of his family and of  the society at the 
news that he had tested positive at a doping control. Thus, I tend to think that athletes are 
not well prepared to face the menace of doping without the help of proper education.                                      
Furthermore, I would add that science must also play an important role in the fight 
against this scourge. Scientists have the power to use research both to develop new tests 
to discover the drugs in an athlete's body and to develop new training methods that 
would not affect the health of the athlete and the "cleanliness" of the game of sport .For 
example, blood doping (which increases red blood cell mass),although it is an 
undetectable doping method, can be successfully replaced by altitude training or the High 
Altitude Bed <R>.
In addition ,my personal opinion is that there needs to be a close relationship between all these fields so 
that the fight against doping can be more efficient and so that better solutions can be 
found. First of all there is an urgent need for sport to return to its initial values and not to 
be so often exploited by outside interests. There is ,also, a need for a complete program to 
unite the different fields of battle into one powerful front against doping. Although I 
believe that measures as extreme as the Italian one are to be avoided - sending the 
athletes which have tested positive to prison <R> -
governments should get  involved and become aware of their very important role in 
dealing with the fields where sporting governing bodies are out of  jurisdiction. They are 
especially responsible for drug trafficking, an area that is very difficult to control by a 
sporting governing body such as The International Olympic Committee(IOC) or the 
International Federations(IFs) . Moreover, educational programs should be very present 
in an athletes' life and a better campaign of information about the benefits of a clean 
sport should often be held. Athletes should really be the ones to promote a fair sport and 
teach every future generation that <Q> <R>.                           
All in all, athletes are not the only ones at fault for the 
development of the doping industry, but rather there are many more fields of action that 
help its spreading. Education ,medicine ,science or even marketing are fields touched by 
this 'disease' ,some helping it grow, others fighting against it .But there is still a lack of 
communication between these domains, something that would increase the efficiency of 
this fight. In my opinion, the outlook on this problem has to change radically. A valid 
solution would be that each one of us rejected doping as a real threat to our health, our 
values and our convictions but I am conscious that eliminating doping is very hard as 
there will always be persons who will want to reach that privileged number one position. 
One very easy solution would be to stop putting pressure on the athlete and go back to the 
basics of sports: Mens sana in corpore sano.(a healthy mind in a healthy body).
