


Transvestism is still a controversial subject even in our modern, 
developed society. The word "transvestite" is commonly explained 
as <Q> <R>.The term was first used by Dr. 
Magnus Hirschfeld, one of the founders of sexology, who defined 
transvestites as <Q> <R>.Another expert in this field, Dr. Harry 
Benjamin adds that it can also be described as <Q> <R>. In this essay I will discuss the various 
viewpoints involving transvestites, how they are perceived 
nowadays by experts and society.

Firstly, transvestites are rejected by society because most of them 
are considered "freaks of nature", frequently surpassing the normal 
boundaries established by society. As the level of knowledge of 
this field  is still very low, people do not take this issue very 
seriously, but  rather consider it some sort of game played by a sick 
mind. They are against it because it is something they do not know 
and cannot handle: people tend to make fun of transvestites and 
isolate them. The general idea of a transvestite is of a terribly-
dressed man, wearing extremely high heels and too much make-up. 
Although this is the case of the famous "drag queens"- <Q> <R> - real transvestites try to look as natural as possible if 
they go out or don female clothes only in their homes or in a secure 
place, usually where only transvestites are gathered. Thus, it is 
apparent that this fixed idea about transvestites being abnormal 
persons would slowly disappear if people would have a better 
knowledge of what being a transvestite truly means.
 
Another important view against it is that transvestism is <Q> <R>. Because of 
this lack of information on the subject, <Q> <R>. Moreover, most writers refer to it 
as a sexual deviation, sometimes as a perversion <R>  
Accordingly, psychiatrists have tried to "cure" transvestites of this 
disease instead of helping them. This is, consequently, one of the 
reasons why transvestites do not tell their doctors about it and try 
to hide it as much as possible from the world around them. One 
transvestite says: <Q> <R>. This negative approach on 
transvestism can be considered extreme and absolutely unhelpful 
for the common cross-dresser who seeks help in a doctor.

An important argument against transvestism is that it creates many 
problems within the family of the transvestite. Once the secret is 
discovered, the family usually goes through a very important crisis. 
Many women are disgusted at the idea that a man puts on women's 
clothes and tend to think that he is a homosexual, although the 
majority of them are not. .As an example, there is the confession of 
a transvestite, included in a survey made by the well-known 
medical journalist and writer Dr. Vernon Coleman (a transvestite 
himself): <Q>
Although there are many similar cases where a transvestite is not 
understood by his family and especially by his wife( thus, another 
reason why they generally hide this from the rest of the world ), 
this is not completely true as many wives actually help their 
partners to cross-dress. Moreover, children, if told at an early age  
tend to accept it as "no big deal"() Consequently, keeping 
everything a secret is most of the times a consequence of the 
transvestites feeling that he will not receive understanding from the 
persons he loves.

Despite of these negative viewpoints, experts believe that, if 
people would be more conscious of  transvestism really involves, 
the general negative view would substantially change. Although 
many people do not approve of this habit, when they get to know 
more about it they become more open and they try to make the 
transvestite feel accepted. Other persons, generally those who are 
raised to accept different kinds of people or who grow up in a 
multi-cultural environment, are more open-minded and,  although 
they know about it as much as everyone else does, they do not 
have misconceptions and tent to take transvestites for what they 
are, not what the world thinks of them. This seems to be one of the 
best ways of  not judging other people by societies standards but 
rather by their own personal value. 

Most experts believe that cross-dressing is actually beneficial to a 
transvestite's health <R>.The European Medical 
Journal on Transvestism's special monograph reads: <Q> <R>. Most cross-
dressers don women's clothes just because they like how  they feel 
and are more comfortable using the other sex's clothing then their 
own. Another factor is that women are allowed to wear any type of 
clothes without being misjudged by society: traditionally women 
were not allowed to put on male clothes but this has radically 
changed with the emancipation of women, which are now 
permitted to exhibit qualities otherwise considered as "male". As 
an example, there is the opinion of one transvestite who thinks 
that <Q> <R>. Consequently it could be 
argued that men have the right to be as feminine as women can be 
masculine and to wear the clothes that women commonly wear.

Research suggests that one of the most important arguments in 
favour of cross-dressing is that it helps men deal with stress. 
Transvestites who try to escape from stress are often workaholics 
<R>. <Q> <R>. They are under so much pressure at work that they 
try to forget their worries by cross-dressing: it gives them a 
<Q> <R>.Transvestites, thus, 
associate clothes with a certain state of mind: they feel trapped, 
pressured, overwhelmingly responsible when dressed in their own 
gender's clothes and relaxed when they put on a female's clothes. 
Futhermore, this is a harmless hobby that will not damage your 
health as alcohol, smoking and other "relaxing" hobbies and many 
doctors experts in this field would rather have their patients cross-
dress than turn to life-threatening relaxation methods. This 
argument can, thus, be viewed as one of the best ways of  
understanding a transvestite's motivation. 

In addition, it can be claimed that transvestites are more sensitive 
persons, capable to understand both the male and the female points 
of view. <Q> <R>. It is 
traditionally considered that a man should not openly show his 
"softer" side or else he will lose his macho figure. As in our 
society this is almost an established rule, men who find it difficult 
to express their sensitive side as a male, turn to cross-dressing to 
liberate  themselves from their masculinity. Thus, they are able to 
understand females and, as most of them have no homosexual 
intentions or any desire to change their sex(one transvestite 
explains: <Q> <R>, can make wonderful partners and fathers. 
This can be considered, thus, one of the most important changes in 
a transvestite's personality, one that positively affects his family 
life. 

All in all, cross-dressing is a highly disputed subject. On the one 
hand, there are those against it because it challenges the society's 
already established moral rules--for these persons cross-dressing is 
nothing else but a disease. On the other hand, experts considered it 
a good way of dealing with the accumulated stress, of releasing 
your true feelings and of coming to terms with your true self. It has 
been claimed that that it is society who has actually created 
transvestites by dividing the lines between what women and what 
men should do and never permitting for these 2 entities to come 
together as one .A better understanding of the situation would, 
consequently, lead to a "happier" society where everyone can live 
together. 

  
