
       As it can be seen in different religious texts <Q> <R>.  For centuries, the 
existence of some herbs which had the properties of avoiding pregnancy was common 
knowledge for all the different religions, and so for all their societies. This was 
impossible to control and nobody really knew whether women were using a 
contraceptive method or not. In modern times, and with the industrialization and the 
scientific advances which society has been through, men and women have the 
opportunity to choose among a considerable wide range of contraceptive methods. 
These can have a temporary effect, as for instance happens with all kind of barrier 
methods (such as male and female condom, diaphragm, cervical cup...), spermicides, 
hormonal treatments (such as the birth control pill, hormonal patch and ring, injectable 
homonal treatments...) and intrauterine devices (IUDs); or irrevocable practices, as 
vasectomy and tubal ligation. All these are contraceptive tecniques which prevent the 
fertilisation of the egg(ouvum), but there is also another kind of contraceptive system 
that would prevent the implantation of a potentally fertilised egg, as for instance the 
morning-after pill. It is recommened to use this last method only on a case of 
emergency, and one of the reasons for it is that it is not as effective as the others. Some 
people argue that the best way to prevent having an unwanted child is to resort to sexual 
abstinence. All of them have side effects, some of them of minor gravity, others quite 
more important, but they don't necessarily have to deal with physical problems, they 
can also involve mental health. This is why some factors, such as age, lifestyle and 
health will influence the decision taken. Probably due to the existence of so many 
different methods which work in so different ways with the common objective of 
avoiding pregnancy, which is a very controversial issue, as it deals with the life of a 
new born, there are several different points of view regarding the use of contraceptives. 
We can distingush clearly between those who are totally against the use of 
contraceptives and who compare them to abortion; some organisations which defend 
their use not only as a human right to enjoy safe sex, but also as a tool to avoid giving 
birth to unwanted children, Sexual Transmitted Deseases (STDs), overpopulation...; 
even though the majority of people seem to have a mid-term opinion concerning this 
issue, people generally agree with the function of contraceptives as a way to prevent 
deseases but they are not comfortable with the idea that some people take advantage of 
contraceptives to have promiscuous relationships. In this essay I intend to comment on 
the different arguments about the use of contraceptives.
       To begin with, it seems that the concept of sex has radically changed in the past 
few years, in our western society. In a majority of cases, if we think of what society 
tended to believe fifty years ago, the term sex was socially acceptable, and nearly 
always related to the presence of love and marriage, especially when talking of Spain. It 
may be reasonable to argue that this is due to the great influence catholic believes have 
always had over every asspect of the Western Society throughout history. These days, it 
could be argued that, for quite a lot of people, marriage nor love is needed as a 
condition in order to satisfy sexual necessity, so the aim of reproduction is totally lost 
and the risk of conciving unwanted children is high. These seems a reason important 
enough  for many people to be in favour of the use of contraception, as the mental 
health of the mother can be damaged by the birth of an unwanted child. Also, it seems 
generally agreed that a poor economic and social background can get to harm the 
youngster, sometimes to a point that his parents can't afford to mantain him. This 
argument seem quite reasonable, as the health of the mother and the future of the child 
seem very important factors to take into account when talking of giving birth to a baby. 
When talking of underdeveloped countries the risk of having a health problem while 
giving birth is even higher, and so the use of contraception is accepted even to a greater 
extent. 
       Even though, the possible main arguments for the use of contraceptive methods 
seem to be their prevention to STDs and their family planing potential seen as a solution 
to control the overpoplation problem. The problem of STDs seem to be one concerning 
a majority of the sexually active popullation and the Health Care Authorities. Although 
the risk of getting infected by AIDS is the most serious one there are numerous other 
STDs such as chlamydia, genital herpes, gonorrhea, hepatitis.... Health Care Authorities 
such as the National Institute of Health (NIH) highly recommend the use of 
contraception, specially the use of the male latex condom as <Q> <R>. This may be the reason why many people claim the 
necessity of the distribution of free condoms in underdeveloped countries, such as 
African ones, where the numer of people infected by AIDS is much larger. According to 
UNAID, AIDS epidemic update from december 2004, <Q> <R>. This seems a reasonable argument in favour of the 
use of contraception as we are dealing with humans health and lives, moreover if there 
is no use of contraception and there is AIDS infection the new born will be infected too. 
The problem of over population has lead to acts such as <Q>. For both, the health of the mother, the child and the male member of the 
couple, and the need of having a control over the world population in countries such as 
China, there are people who claim that the use of all kind of contraceptives needs to be 
extended to everyone, specially when having an expontanious sexual relationship.
       On the other hand we have the Catholic Church and the anti-abortion 
conservatives. These seem to focus on the catholic belive that sex out of marriage is 
undeniable, as it shouldn't be to the service of satisfying human sexual needs but it 
should only take place with a reproductive aim. They argue that if it is used properly 
and only in a settled couple with the expectation of having children then there would be 
no need of using contraception, what seems quite reasonable. They also claim that the 
only way and the safest one of assuring the prevention of STDs and unwanted children 
is abstinence. This has impulsed the arise of training programs such as WAIT (Why Am 
I Tempted) which <Q> <R>.
       In contrast to the judeo-christian understanding of the sexual act for the mere 
sense of reproduction, in the rest of the majoritarian religions it is also seen as a need in 
order to satisfy the couple's necessities. That is way Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism are 
not against the use of contraceptive tecniques. <Q> is the reason why this 
religions are partly in favour of the use of contraception. Once the egg has been 
fertilised then they believe life has been created, so only contraceptive methods that 
prevent the fertilisation of the egg would be valid for the, this means they are against 
abortion and the use of contraceptives such as the mornin-after pill  <R>. It 
seems quite reasonable they distinguish between both types of contraception as their 
values in what respect to "life" are very concrete.
       There also seem to be a lot of catholics who support this mid-term view about 
contraception, because they are conscious of the riks of getting infected by STDs and 
the consequences an unwantged pregnancy could have. Thse would normally use those 
who prevent the fertilisatin and not those which prevent the implantation. They also see 
a disadvantage to the use of contrception and is the premature approach of our teenagers 
to sexuality, which can end up meaning a bad usage of the contraceptive methods, that 
then can brin health problems, menta lproblems and unwanted babies.
       To conclude, we can see there are many arguments both for and against the use 
of contraceptives. Some defend the respect for life and so condemn the use of those who 
act after the fertilisation has occured, others seem to condemn the actual sexual act if it 
is not with the target of reproduction , and finally there are others who seem the more 
reasonable which defend the mental and physical health of both participants of the 
sexual act and the future bay, and which is the one that is in favor of the use of 
contraception.
        


       



