
	It seems that since civilisation began the consume of drugs has been a fact 
which, these days, appears to be concerning a wider range of the worldswide 
population. According to the congressional research services of the United States, <Q> <R> and accordinig to the Russian healthcare officials, 
<Q> <R>, these facts 
are only a few examples of what is probably easy to find in almost any country, what is 
in fact quite frightening, specially if you look at the results from El Observatorio 
Europeo de las Drogas y las Toxicomanías (OEDT) which in a recent study found out 
that, <Q> <R>. Both, a majority 
of  citizens and governments, seem to be seriously trying to look for a solution to this 
problem but recurrently end up criminalizing and illigalizing the use of these 
substances, as you can see when reading through most of the drug policies around the 
world; or as it happened at Witchford Village Collage, near Ely, where some students 
who were not older than fifteen years old were suspended from school for smoking 
cannabis in the playground <R>. In this essay 
I intend to show from my point of view that these measures above stated do not work as 
a solution to drug addiction but, moreover, in some cases they can even make the 
problem worse.
	As we have already seen, drug addiction is a real problem which definitely 
affects a considerable part of our present society, and which we will have to handle in 
some way or another. I personally belive that drug addicts are not criminals, but just 
unhealthy citizens who suffer from a terrible diseas which, yes, in many cases, they 
might have choosen to start themselves, but mostly in every case, without knowing what 
they were up to. A vast majority of countries have used from the beginning of the war 
against drugs their drug legislation as a weapon to fight against drug addiction, which 
will mainly consist in illegalization and criminilazation of the use and consume of these: 
<Q> <R>. The problem comes when these measures 
aren't enough to end with the problem, and so, many governments decide to establish 
more strict laws regarding drug abuse, as you can see: <Q> <R>. However, this approach to the illegalization of drugs doesn't 
seem to be giving positive results, as the number of drug addicts seem to be increasing. 
These shows that imprisionment does little to cure this habit and its why some people 
have started to think about other kind of solutions. For instance, the Health officer 
council of B.C. (Canada) said, <Q> <R>. 
Although this is something that most people will find as completly mad, for my part, I 
believe that it is the best and only way to have a complete control over these substances 
and their consumers.
	Another true statement we can do is that even drugs are illegal in most countries 
nearly everyone can have a presumely easy acces to these. This means, first of all that 
there has to be someone who gets to smuggle them into the country, which creates the 
existences of mafias which get to control the drug market. This also means there's no 
one to control on the quality or price of the drugs themselves. These are the reasons why 
a personally tend to belive that drugs shouldn't be illegalised, because this way there is 
no State control over them. Many people would argue that the legalisation of drugs 
would be hellerious because it would mean the state's and social approval to the 
consume of these, as it has happened with alcohol or tabacco. However, I strongly 
believe that we have to stick to reality, and the actual fact is that people do consume 
drugs and they manage to find them even as thay are, illegal. These causes other 
problems such as drug trafficking and farming which can even mean that the economies 
of certain countries, such Afganistan, mainly depend on the cultivation of opium. 
Something needs to be done to face this problem but even though <Q> <R> according to the 
organisation's supreme allied comander in Europe. This can sometimes end up by being 
a source of money to terrorists who then can improve thier internal structures.
	Another point which is important to understand is the fact that teenagers these 
days start consuming drugs in earlier ages. Of course, this is a problem that doesn't 
concern each and every adolescent but as the figures are is starting to concern many 
people. The most important problem is that some of these youngsters are used by mafias 
to distribute the illicit drugs as they won't get  so hard sentences because they are 
underage. From these, I personally feel that the illegalisation and punishment for the use 
of drugs doesn't stop teenagers from trying them and so other measures should be taken. 
Many people would say that the only way of ending with the problem of drug abuse is 
education, but are we really giving these education to are teenagers? Are we providing 
them with enough preventing information about this topic? Or is it still a taboo which 
we prefer to avoid until the problem arrives? And after it has arrived, do we really give 
them the neccessay information to help them quit? Some people who are against the 
legalisation of drugs and most of the governments will say they are working hard to 
provide these help and education. However, what we can see from evidence is that when 
the moment comes of facing the problem most of them will try to look away from it as 
it happened at Witchford School were the headmaster, after having found some students 
<Q> said that <Q>  but what he actually did was to suspend the boys as he had already done with 
another case of students found in possesion of drugs on-site <R>. These, personally speaking, doesnt appear to me as the best way of 
educating teenagers against the use of drugs.
	To conclude, after having stated what from my point of view are the main 
problems of the illegalisation of drugs, I personally think that it is the moment for 
governments to forget their ethic and moral prejudices and start thinking seriously on 
the legalisation and control of drugs, as it seem to me that can help with the real 
problem of drug addiction.	

