
	
       After the second World War the United Nations (U.N.) felt the need of 
recompensing Jewish people for the Nazi Holocaust which they had just suffered. The 
creation of Israel in the year  1948 was the culmination of the Zionist movement which 
had aimed at creating a commom homeland of jews, who were scattered around the 
world following the disapora. As it can be seen when reading through the Old 
Testament, a considerable number of Jewish most importan holly sites are located in 
what used to be the former British mandate of Palestina,  so in November 1947 de U.N., 
strongly supported by the United States, adopted the decision of putting into practice the 
partition plan which <Q> <R>. This 
decision has been argued to be unfair by the Palestinians who were displaced and by 
some neighbouring Arab countries such as Egypt, Jordania, Syria or Lebanon who have 
also been affected by the illegitimate Israeli colonization.  <Q> <R>. We are 
dealing with a conflict wich ahs two different approaches, it can be seen as an internal 
problem between Israelis an Palestinians but it can also be seen as a conflict between 
the Arab world and the Christian world. This may be one of the reasons why there is 
quite a lot of international interfering and so many different view points regarding the 
conflict and its solution. When analysing the main suggestions in what respects the 
solution of the conflict we do not find a clear separate israli and palestinian point of 
view. <Q> <R>. As this resulted in a violent armed 
conflict which also involved other countries the U.N. finally came to a peace resolution 
by the means of the Oslo Accords which <Q> <R>. In this essay I am going to discuss the 
different issues which still need to be dealt with as a result of the solution taken of 
creating two seperate states from the point of view of its major participants, and I am 
going to give my opinion on each of the different perspectives from which the conflict 
can be dealt with.
       In the one hand we find Israel authorities who fear for the security of their 
citizens as a result of the Palestinian suicide bombers. Since the conflict began, they 
seem to have choosen military actions and restrictions on palestinians rights to confront 
the problem of the armed uprisings. This is the reason why <Q> <R> in order to prevent Palestinian 
terrorism. <Q> <R>. In my point 
of view, it seems quite obvious that Palestinian Authorities -Palestine Liberation 
Organization (PLO)- have a serious problem concernig the issue of terrorism which 
they have not yet managed to face. Some Palestinian relgious groups, such as the ones 
mentioned above, are the ones to carry along the armed uprisings known as the Intifada 
which also has to do with the religous belief of the Islamic Jihad or Holly War. But it is 
not the armed uprisings of Palestinains to face the Israeli army what most concerns 
Israel, it is the terrorist attacks carried along by radical supporters of the PLO in Israel's 
public sites that worries them, because they are killing civilians who have nothing to do 
with the armed conflict. From 2000 to 2005 <Q> <R>.This is way it may be reasonable for some to argue that the military action of 
israel against Palestine is a retaliaton. In my point of view this argument has a strong 
weakness, especially when regarding to the facts which show that <Q> <R>. have been killed in the same oeriod of time by the Israeli Army. Well, I 
personally think that killing civilians who live opressed by your military power and 
control will not end the problem of terrorism, moreover, it can even feed the feeling of 
revenge of Palestinians. 
       In the other hand we have Palestine Liberation Organitations (PLO) which 
condem the armed Palestinan uprising but who also feel the need of a Palestinan State 
without Israeli occupation. Palestinians had to suffer the military occupation of Israel 
who was highly aid by the United States, both economically and military, and so it may 
be understandable the fact that some armed groups emerged to face this occupation. 
<Q> <R>. It is also a sad 
issue to mention the fact that there are many Palestinian Refugees who have to live in 
Refugee Camps which are located in the Palestinian occupied territories. <Q> <R>. I personally think that 
from this data we can come to the conclusion that there are people in Israel who leave in 
conditions which do not respect human rights and so something needs to be done. I tend 
to believe that many of the measures taken by Israel far from ending up with the 
problem of terrorism  are restrictions to Palestinan's access to schools, hospitals and 
agricultural land.
       As I have above mentioned, other neighbouring Arab countries, the United 
States and the United Nations are also secundary participants of the conflict.The Arab 
countries have taken part for Palestine, as they have also suffered Israel's military 
occupation, and feel they have to fight christianism out of the Arab World. The United 
States have always clearly taken part for Israel both Military and economically mainly 
because of their political intrests in the Middle East. Finally the United Nations 
ultimately are taken more decissions about the conflict and the past year 2005 declared 
illegitimate Israel's military occupation of Palestina and they obliged them to withdraw 
from that territories, but i personally tend to believe that they are not really putting 
much effort on making Israel adjust to the law.
       As a conclusion, from my point of view the United Nations are the ones who 
need to work the hardest on the solution of this problem, because I believe that if 
Palestinians keep on feel repressed by the military occupation of Israel the terrorist 
attacks will not stop. I think an International interaction is need to ensure Israeli and 
Palestinian security, to deal with the fate of the Palestinian refugees and to make sure 
Israel follows the law.
       
       
