       
       <Q>. George W. Bush 
pronounced these words in 1999. At that time many pro same sex couples rights groups 
demanded him a rectification for the words said, because from their point of view he was 
speaking without having contrasting the opinion he was making up. But some other groups 
were of the same opinion as the President of the United States. Time have passed and same 
sex couples adoption continues to be a really controversial topic in most of the develop 
countries, so in this essay I am going to discuss and analyse the different points of views to 
allow same-sex couples adopt children.  
       
       Firstly, some people believe that children raised up by same sex parents are much 
likely to grow up gay by themselves, something that has been supported by two professors 
of sociology at the University of Southern California, that had admitted that recent studies 
show that a higher proportion of same sex couples are up themselves to engage in 
homosexuality <R>. In spite of this, there are some other 
people that, also basing their ideas in scientifical research, asserts that some people of 
lesbian and gay men will grow up to be gay, as will some children of heterosexual parents. 
These children will have the advantage of being raised by parents who are supportive and 
accepting in a world that can sometimes be hostile <R>. These two 
arguments seem quite logical, due to the fact that both are based in research made by 
experts on the subject. This shows how controversial the topic is, but it could be reasonable 
to consider other arguments in order to allow gay adoption.      
       
       Some researchers say that children from same sex couples are much more 
vulnerable to be ridiculed by other children. Sanratakos in one of his books <R>, shows that some children of lesbian and gay parents have been ridiculed for the 
sexual preference of their parents: <Q>. 
       
       On the other hand, the Law Reform Institute of Tasmania argues the fact that 
children suffer the kind of ridicule and treatment described by Sarantakos highlights the 
need to alter laws that tend to reinforce such prejudices by grating them legal rights <R>. Both arguments are strong, but the first one is less 
convincing because nowadays it can be found that children for heterosexual couples are 
being ridiculed due to other reasons such as if they wear glasses, if they are good or bad 
students, if they are from one country or another...Those things have the same 
consequences as the ones Sanratakos describes for children of homosexual couples, so it 
seems that basing on this argument there isn't a convincing reason to forbid same sex 
couples to adopt..
       
       Also, it is possible to argue that children need a mother and a father to get the 
proper female and male role models, as the Baptist of Tasmanian Churches states: <Q> <R>.
       
       On then contrary, it could be said that children without homes have either a mother 
or a father as role models. They get their role models from many other places besides their 
parents as for example grandparents, aunts and uncles, friends, teachers and neighbours 
<R>.  These arguments seem quite convincing, due 
to the fact that female and male role models are necessary for the raise up of children. 
However as society have developed it is rather easy for children to find these models not 
only in their own homes, something quite important, but also besides them. 
       
       It has been suggested that those children with same sex parents are more likely to be 
abused <R>. Furthermore, according to a research by 
Carole Jenny, paediatric, there is no connection between homosexuality and paedophilia. 
All the legitimate scientific evidence shows that sexual attraction, whether homosexual or 
heterosexual, is an adult sexual attraction to others, whereas paedophilia is an adult sexual 
attraction to children. Also, 90% of child abuse is committed by heterosexual men. In a 
study of approximately 300 people, only two of them were gay or lesbian. <R>. This last argument seems logical, because there is no connection psychological 
argument that justifies the connection between paedophilia and homosexuality, which 
justifies denying the eligibility for same sex couples to adopt.    
        
       It is apparently true that good parenting is not related to sexual orientation, it is 
rather influenced by parents' ability to create a loving home in which the child would have 
a good environment for his psychological growth, an ability that doesn't depend on the 
sexual orientation <R>. Due to this, adoption is a 
rigorous process, in which factors such as relationship stability, character, criminal record, 
health, and parenting ability are assessed to ensure that it is the best interests of the child to 
be adopted by the applicants. Not all gay couples can be good parents, as just not all 
opposite couples are good parents. <R>. That is the reason why some people believe that decisions about adoption 
need to be made on a case-by-case basis, in the best interests of the child, and not bothering 
to the parents' sexuality.
       
       So then, there are many arguments concerning same sex couples adoption. The main 
arguments in favour are that there are not scientifical evidences that show that the sexual 
orientation of their parents influence their sexual orientation or behaviour with other 
children at school  , that there is no evidence of same sex couples' children being abused by 
their parents. On the contrary, it is said that children need defined male and female roles 
models, that the are much likely to grow up gay themselves. On balance, good parenting is 
not associated with sexual orientation adoption but it is related to a good psychological 
environment, which is definitely what a child might need a beloved home.    


2

