      
      The Janus report on Sexual Behaviour estimates that more than one-third of men 
and one-quarter of women admit having had at least one extramarital sexual experience <R>. Whatever the actual numbers are the point is that adultery is much more 
common than we would like to admit. Family therapist and psychiatrist Frank Pittman 
believes that: <Q> <R>. He further argues that adultery has become a commonplace 
has altered society's perception of it. He says: <Q> <R>. In this essay, I would try to discuss and analyse the different perspectives 
concerning adultery and critique them from my point of view.
      Firstly, it is a good idea to define adultery and the different types that are going to 
be taken in consideration in this paper. Adultery is generally defined as consensual sexual 
intercourse by a married person with someone other than their lawful spouse. As there is 
usually an implicit or explicit agreement between spouses to not have sex outside the 
marriage, the common synonym for adultery is infidelity as well as unfaithfulness or in 
colloquial speech, cheating <R>. In addition, we could find that not only 
sexual relations are involved in adultery. In the bible, Jesus Christ warned about adultery 
without sexual intercourse: <Q> <R>. 
      Some people would argue that adultery is about sex. On the contrary, it often seems 
just the opposite, frequently the sex is better at home, and the marriage partner is at least as 
attractive as the adulterous partner. Partners in affairs are not chosen because they are 
prettier, more handsome, or sexier, they are selected for various sort of strange nonsexual 
reasons. Usually the other woman or the other man in an adulterous relationship meets 
needs the spouse does not meet in marriage. Dr. Willard Harley lists five primary needs for 
a man and five primary needs for a woman. He believes that by unmet needs, by either 
partner, are a primarily cause of extramarital affairs. Also, a lack of fulfilment in one of 
these basic emotional areas creates a dangerous vacuum in a person's life. And, 
unfortunately, many will eventually fill that need outside of marriage  <R>.
      Furthermore, sex may not be involved in some affairs. The relation may be only an 
emotional affair. Counsellor Bonnie Weil, warns that these relationships also called affairs 
of the heart can be even more treacherous than the purely physical kind. Women, 
particularly, are inclined to leave their husbands when they feel a strong emotional bond 
with another man  <R>.
      This argumentation seems quite logical, due to the fact that nowadays what we find, 
in my opinion, is that not just by a glance people are committing adultery, but sometimes, 
some people may find adulterous the fact that their partner is having a date with someone 
else without having told them, even if no sexual attraction is involve, because they might 
think that other feelings are involve if they haven't said a word about the other person. I 
find this much more important than pure sex because some people believe that to have sex 
with somebody, does not necessary have to imply feelings, it can be just passion, a natural 
necessity that has to be covered. However, if you date someone, this may involve feelings 
and even attraction, things that can usually be the beginning of a relationship <R>.
      It could be said that adultery is harmless. Affairs are good for you; an affair may 
even revive a dull marriage. The Playboy philosophy and its Cosmopolitan counterpart 
urged infidelity as a way to keep men manly, women womanly, and marriage vital <Q> <R>.
      Contrary to this conventional wisdom, I believe that an affair will not help marriage. 
In 1975, Linda Wolfe, psychiatrist, studied twenty-one women who were having affairs to 
keep their marriages intact. The reasoning for many of these women was that if they could 
meet their own needs, their marriages would be more successful. Many said they were 
desperately lonely. Others were afraid, believing their husbands did not love them or were 
not committed to their marriage. Five years after the initial study, only three of the twenty-
one women were still married <R>. It seems to me that people can have a 
friendship, but they have to be careful who they share their deepest feelings with. Although 
women share their deep feelings with lots of people, particularly other women, men are 
usually most comfortable sharing their feelings in a love relationship. As a result, when a 
relationship becomes intimate and emotional, men tend to sexualise it  <R>.
      From my point of view, when someone commits adultery, is because it is not 
fulfilled with what their partner gives to them. This doesn't mean that they don't love each 
other, I believe that what this means is that they try to look outside the their relation in 
order to find what they are looking for, something that they cannot have with their couple 
or that have been lost due to the fact that the couple has gone down in routine. Routine is, 
from my view, what maintains many relationships. They are quite sure of what they are 
living, they like it and they love each other, but, they have lost passion, or they find new 
ways of feeling with other people, not better or worst just different. Many people would 
like to experience new things, and actually they don't want to hurt the other person by 
telling them what they are doing, because in fact they still loving their couple, and that is 
the reason why they hide the new experiences <R>. 
      So there are many arguments concerning adultery, in this paper I have tried to deal 
with some of them, trying also to give my own opinion on this topic. Firstly, adultery 
doesn't necessary involve sexual intercourse, it can related to feelings or it can just sex. 
Adultery is normally committed when the needs of the couple are unmet, they try to find 
their needs outside the relationship that they have. It has been said that when an affair is 
discovered, many times the relationship ends in divorce; it doesn't help marriage to survive. 
Even if they love their couple, they can commit adultery in order to have new experiences. 
However, I personally think that, adultery would be part of our lives until we would be able 
to realise that we have to do in order to avoid it, is to solve the problems of communication 
that many couples and society have.       
 
 
 
 



