Last year, at the age of 15, Daniel Carter, a boy suffering from a deficit hyperactivity disorder, was charged of premeditated murder. Cindy Carter, his mother, discover that he was selling marijuana and she felt unable to control him, so she asked her brother for help. Daniel and his uncle had a fight beginning only with just shouts and slaps and ending with the uncle death. Daniel was judged in an adult court and finally sent to prison in which he desire to die. Every year a quarter of a million youth under 18 years are tried and sentence in adult courts- few of whom receive any individualised assessment before the decision is made to treat them as if they were adults. In this essay I intend to argue that in my view a juvenile justice system is necessary to keep teenagers future.

Firstly, it seems to me that in many cases most of juveniles tried in adult courts haven't had an individualised evaluation of the reason to commit the crime, or even their social surroundings haven't been analysed which can be really influential to their actions. On the other hand, it is found that the assessment can't be done according to practical and economical reasons, as Kurt Kumli, the supervising deputy district attorney for the Juvenile division of Santa Clara County's District Attorney's office recognises: <Q> <R>. 

On the contrary, these assessments are necessary to get all the information around the case and the child in order not to make mistakes such as the case of a 16-year old named Michael Duc Ta- whose only previous contact with police was a protective measure when he had suffered a beating by his father- is serving a sentence of 35 years to life for driving a car from which shots were fired, even tough no one was hurt; this is a rigid sentence than a adult might get for premeditated murder.

I would argue that a significant number of young offenders do not possess the intellectual and emotional maturity to understand the judicial process to contribute effectively to their own defence, something that has been prove by some specialists on the subject: <Q> said Lawrence Steinberg, director of the MacArthur Network and professor of psychology at Temple University(2002). However, many would say that if they had been mature enough to commit a crime they must be considered with the same maturity at court.

In addition, a new important research argues that certain parts of the brain are often not fully formed, something that limits the cognitive ability, which has also to do with the part of the brain that has to do with making good judgements, moral and ethical decisions, and reining in impulsive behaviour. Recognising that this biological difference is not meant to excuse criminal behaviour or to suggest that youth should not be held accountable for their crimes. However, it means that youth can sometimes be considered less morally, ethical and cognitively develop in the same way that offenders with developmental delays and brain damage are sometimes seen by the court as less legally responsible for their actions.

Many people would argue that those juveniles that have break the law once, would do it again. That is what a 1995 CBS News and New York times poll found. But, from my view that is completely the opposite because they receive a different treatment munch more close to their conditions: a study of a criminology professor at the Indiana University of Pennsylvania compared the recidivism of 557 Pennsylvania teens matched for age, past criminal record, type of weapon, type of weapon used in the crime and other pertinent factors. He found the re-offence rate to be worse among the youth whose cases were tried in adult court.

From my view another point for not trying juveniles as adults is the consequences that imprisonment would have in a teenager in the future psychological and physically speaking. According to Patrice Cashwell, a defence attorney: <Q> <R>. An also the idea that in prison they would be treated as equals, so they would suffer fights, rapes,...something that is confirm by some adult correction officials: <Q> <R>. On the contrary, in a youth correctional teens are supervised by qualified staff that give them counsel, education,..., things that will have a long term effect on their behaviour.

In my opinion and according to the U.S. laws, adolescents can't be tried by a jury of their age and status, because people of their age are not allowed to serve. It could be argue that, just by definition, they can't receive a fair hearing in adult court because of that reason due to the fact that adults don't have the same concept of life that teenagers have. However many policymakers believe that serious juvenile offenders should be tried in criminal court in order to achieve more certain and more severe punishment. But in fact Juvenile courts were created to allow society to intervene early in the lives of troubled youth and they prevented a variety of horrors that occurred whenever young defendants were thrown in with adult criminals.

To conclude, it is clear from my point of view that the juvenile system have to be supported in order to keep teenagers in the good way to become adults. There are neuronal reasons confirm that they aren't mentally equal to adults, and that in many cases aren't able to understand a judicial process. Also, there are physical and psychological reasons for not sending juveniles to an adult correctional in which he wouldn't have the advise and education of experts and they would have more possibilities for recidivism. They don't get the same rights as an adults do, because they can't be tried by their equals and sometimes they are given higher sentences than adults may get. Although there are many negative factors for juveniles treated as adults, the number of them tried in adult courts increase every year something that only contributes to teach them how to fight, how to get raped, how to spend time in isolation for talking back, how to lose their humanity, how to get more and more angry in order to survive in prison.

 
