


One of the most important technological advances in the 20th century was that of 
cloning, and with the cloning of Dolly the sheep at the Roselyn Institute of Edinburgh, cloning has become a controversially debated subject within our society. As this 
process has been successful in the cloning of animals, scientists have considered the 
possibility of cloning human beings, but Moral and Religious values have moved people 
against this new discovery. However, there are also people who support this new field 
of research as they, as well as scientists see many benefits in the process of human 
cloning. In this essay I intend to discuss the different viewpoints regarding human 
cloning and I will show my point of view regarding the point discussed.

One of the strongest arguments against the cloning of human beings is that there are too 
many risks in the experiment. In the case of Dolly the sheep, 277 attempts were needed 
in order to get a positive result. 5 months after the clone process was initiated, and after 
276 attempts, Dolly the lamb was born. The fact that 277 attempts were needed to 
obtain a birth with Dolly makes scientists fear that applying this technique on humans 
might lead to an increase in unnecessary deaths of unborn offspring.

One of the most influential testimonies given against human cloning, was given by 
Wilmut, one the creators of Dolly. Wilmut calls the cloning of humans "appalling", 
because it would result in a high number of miscarriages and deaths among new borns. 
Cloning of humans will bee a much more difficult task and a huge risk where a number 
of things can go wrong causing malformation and diseases in the human body. 
Although these theories have not yet been proved, they are based on experiments on 
animals. For example, from over 9000 cloned cow embryos, only 70 were born into 
calves, in which a third of the viable cloned embryos died young, many of them
grotesquely large. Experiments haven't been practised on humans due to the large 
failure in animal experiments.

To me, this argument seems quite strong as it's backed up by scientific data. In my 
opinion, the somatic transfer process used to clone Dolly and the calves mentioned 
above, is not an adequate process for human cloning. In many countries human cloning 
research has been fanned, for example in America, 1998 ex President Clinton banned all 
somatic transfer research and cloning funded by government funds. One of the main 
reasons that this type of research was banned was because of its low success results. I 
don't believe that banning this type of research is appropriate because up to the date it is 
the only type of cloning process that has given viable offspring. I believe that 
restrictions should be placed and more study into cloning should be done in order to 
reduce the number of embryos used to clone humans.

Another point of view is the usefulness of cloning human beings in medical 
interventions. According to , using human cloning for medical purposes has many 
advantages, for example. Cells can be cloned and regenerated to replace damaged 
sections and cells in the body. Diseases such as cancer, Tay-Sachs disease, cystic 
fibrosis, muscular dystrophy, and Huntington's disease could be cured by cloning 
technology where the defective genes in the cell are replaced with the normal genes. This procedure also helps correct genetic diseases in children. Parents who don't 
want their child to have a genetic disease can have the embryo of both parents cloned, 
with the clone having the genes modified then reinserted into the mother's uterus. The 
child will be an exact copy of the original embryo but without the genes that provoke 
that disease.

This technique which is still in the early stages of study, but it seems to be quite a 
reasonable reason for scientists to research and study cloning. I believe that research on 
cloning is justified in these means, when it is used for the purpose of helping man kind. 
According to Ian Wilmut, the creator of Dolly the sheep, cloning humans is justified if it 
means helping prevent genetic diseases. Although some people believe that this 
type of intervention is that of playing god and believe that engineers have no right to 
play god, I believe that this type of intervention is essential for the human race to 
evolve, to become a better world. With cloning humans can become more resistant to 
diseases and even life longer due to elimination of bad genes in cells.

Apart from the gene regeneration of cells, another medical purpose for cloning is that of 
cloning human vital organs. This has many positive perspectives such as the end of 
waiting lists for organ transplants, and another being that, as the organ is a clone of the 
original, the body won't reject the organ. Another important aspect to bear in mind 
hears is that no human embryos and clones of humans need to be created. Once the cells 
of the organs begin to divide, they can be implanted into "knock out" pigs to be 
harvested until the transplant. These knock out pigs have been genetically modified to 
lack copies of a gene which causes rejection of organs.

I believe that this argument is one of the most convincing arguments in favour of human 
cloning. Although it is not cloning whole humans, it is still considered human cloning. 
Cloning organs via genetically modified pigs is very beneficial to both animals and 
humans. By this, we reduce the number the other animals being tested on to harvest 
organs and also eradicate the possibility of cloning humans then killing them for their 
organs at an adult age. In my opinion this breakthrough brings us one step closer to in 
giving a possible solution to the shortage of organs for organ transplant.

Another point of vies that is raising a lot of controversy is that of social factors. For 
instance if a couple can't gave a child or if a loved one is lost in an accident, cloning 
would be the answer in replacing them. This topic is controversial because there are 
people in favour of regaining loved ones and recuperate a social and emotional stability. 
On the other hand others say that cloning a person will never regain the loved lost; it 
will always be a different person only similar in aspect.

In my opinion, I believe that this form of playing "god" has its advantages. I say god 
because we are not cloning for medical interventions, we are cloning in order to create a 
new human being, and for that human being to live a normal life, scientist are giving 
life. I believe that cloning for needs of infertile parents is important as it is giving them 
the opportunity of having a child, although there are other means of infertile parents of 
being parents such as adoption, but cloning gives parents the possibility of having a 
biological child, even though it's a younger version of one of the parents. Also in the 
case of loosing a loved one in an accident, in my opinion cloning would give the family 
peace of mind having that person back, with the only inconvenient that it's a child. I am 
in favour or human cloning but I believe there should be restrictions on cloning. I think 
that if one day cloning becomes legalised it should be strictly monitored, and be 
restricted to cases such as loosing loved ones or infertile parents. If no restrictions are 
placed, people could clone a whole of Hitler's a provoke a new World War.

To conclude, this essay has put forward various topics related to human cloning. The 
main argument against cloning is the insufficient research into cloning causing 
unnecessary deaths of embryos and numerous unjustified tests on animals. Another 
point discussed was the positive side related to human cloning. With the research of 
human cloning, diseases such as cancer, Tay-Sachs disease, cystic fibrosis, muscular 
dystrophy, and Huntington's disease can be altered in the embryos and the child grow 
into a healthy adult without the gene traits of the disease. Also the possibility of cloning 
human organs give patients waiting for organ transplants new hopes. And finally 
cloning gives infertile adults the possibility of being parents, but there are those that 
believe limits should be made in order to control who and why people are being cloned. 
I believe that cloning is a new step that the human race is taking forward in the 
evolution of mankind. With human cloning men will become more resistant, smarter 
and stronger in the fight for survival.




