       Before the discovery of Viagra, problems related with males having difficulties 
with erections never had a solution. Thanks to the release of Viagra on the 27th of march 
1998, millions of men all over the world have regained an active and regular sex life.  
Viagra is used to treat this problem, erectile dysfunction, also known as impotence, 
which is best defined as the inability to maintain an erection necessary for sexual 
satisfaction. With the new drug Viagra, men who had trouble with impotency, can 
now get an erection simply by taking a tablet of Viagra. But not everything about 
Viagra is positive. In this essay I will discuss the controversial issue of Viagra and 
analyze different points of view.
	One of the main arguments in favour of the consumption of Viagra is that of its 
instant effects. Taking one tablet of Viagra 30 minutes before sexual intercourse and 
with the help of sexual stimulus, men suffering erectile dysfunction (ED) will get 
erections that can last up to 4 hours. In America alone, ED affects over 30 million men, 
with more than 35% being over the age of 65. Although Viagra can be taken by normal 
healthy males, it's usually used by males between the age of 40 and 70 where the cases 
of ED within this age group elevate to 52% of men. It seems that due to Viagra's 
high study results with the tablet working in every 4 out of 5 men; it has become the 
most popular treatment for men affected by ED. 
       Not only will Viagra give men back the ability to get and maintain an erection 
like an 18 year old, but will also raise their self esteem and ego. Men suffering ED 
usually have a low esteem, are depressed and are too embarrassed about there problem 
to talk about it. These problems are often reflected in day to day lives of these men. For 
example not wanting to do anything, and lazing about. But with the use of Viagra, it 
allows adults suffering ED to once again have an erection, to have sex, and to please 
themselves or their lover. Viagra makes men feel younger, full of energy and capable of 
doing something that was up till now unthinkable, that of getting an erection. From this 
argument it seems that it not only helps in physical processes such as the getting on an 
erection, but also in the mental treatment of the emotional side effects.
       There is also another reason for Viagra's popularity and that is its increase of sex 
in a couple. Viagra's is main goal is that of a correct erection but also to complete 
satisfactory in sexual relations. Many couples had seen themselves in strife due to the 
lack of sexual participation, but with the help of Viagra they have recovered one of the 
essential elements in what makes a couple work. A recent study led by Dr. Markus 
Muller in Germany, found more tenderness and less quarrelling between couples when 
men were successfully treated for erectile problems . So, as we have seen, this 
argument seems rather convincing, as the use of Viagra increases and betters the 
communication between couples as they argue less and become more caring.
       On the other hand, it might also be argued that a negative point of view on 
Viagra is its side effects. One of the most talked about side effects about Viagra is that 
of heart failure. Although this is not so common, it's the most dangerous as it can cause 
strokes and even death. According to tuotromedico.com Viagra shouldn't be used by 
men suffering cardiac illnesses and especially with other medicines that contain nitrates. 
medicines containing nitrate taken with Viagra can lower the blood pressure to alarming 
levels causing men to faint or even heart attacks. It seems that from this information that 
Viagra is potentially dangerous to those who use it as it cause death if not used properly 
or used by men who have heart problems.
        According to the American Academy of Ophthalmology, Viagra not only 
causes accelerated heart patterns but also causes differences in eyesight. The American 
food and drug administration is investigating over 50 cases where men have become 
blind partially or completely due to the use of Viagra. Not only can Viagra cause 
blindness, but it can also cause alterations in the perceptions of colors. Michael 
Marmor, a professor at Stanford University said that a moderate percentage (3%) of 
men taking Viagra reported problems with there vision. The most common problem 
being deviations in the perception of colours and a blue tinge as well as being sensitive 
to light. It seems reasonable to say that Viagra is dangerous towards men taking it as 
they can confuse colours. For example, the Federal Aviation Administration has 
prohibited pilots to take Viagra at least 6 hours before flying as they can confuse panels 
in the cockpit.
       Like all drugs taken, there are also common side effects that nearly all Viagra 
users receive. The most common side effect is that of head aches and flushing. Flushing 
being a process where the face becomes red and hot. There are also other side effects 
such as an upset stomach, stuffy nose, urinary tract infection and diarrhea. Although 
these arguments would normally turn men off using Viagra, but the fact is that men are 
willing to bare the side effects to get an erection. They believe that the side effects are 
nothing compared with the results.
       Although Viagra treats erectile dysfunction it doesn't protect a couple against 
sexually transmitted diseases (STD). One of the main problems with Viagra is that men 
believe that as it's a miracle drug that it will protect against STD's. Geoff Cook, a 
spokesman for Pfizer cooperation, says that the company is satisfied with what the 
consumer label reads for the drug <Q>. 
It is reasonable to say that with the use of Viagra, other means of protection should be 
used such as condoms to protect against sexually transmitted diseases.  
       One thing that men have to bare in mind is that Viagra is not a cure, it is a 
treatment. Most men believe that as it has instantaneous results it's a cure and can abuse 
the drug in the sense of taking more than the permitted amount. Abusing the drug can 
have similar effects to that of heart attacks and strokes. Taking an elevated dose, or 
taking it to frequently can cause hypotension. The argument that Viagra is a cure may 
appeal to many people because of its instant lasting results, but the act of sex transmits 
sexually transmitted diseases, with or without Viagra, so the best way to beat STD's is 
the use of contraceptives. 
       In conclusion, we can see that this essay has considered several points of view 
regarding Viagra. We have seen three positive viewpoints such as; its instant effects, it 
increases men's self esteem and ego, and it increases men's sex life. Some negative 
points of view on Viagra seen are its side effects; some being extreme such as being 
dangerous for men suffering heart problems, and loss or deviations of sight; and 
common side effects being; head aches, flushing, stuffy noses, urinary infections, and 
diarrhoea. Other points' of view being that it's a treatment and not a cure and it doesn't 
protect against sexually transmitted diseases. Considering all these points it might be 
reasonable to say that Pfizer should focus more on the side effects and try to eliminate 
them to reduce its discomfort.  


