
In today's society crime and violence has become part of our day to day lives. When we 
see in newspapers and magazines articles about murders and robberies we aren't as 
surprised as we have become accustomed to seeing it, but when we see the same offence 
committed by a child we aren't so accustomed and are shocked. Recently there has been 
an increase in the number of offences committed by juveniles and has become an 
alarming subject throughout the world. Although this theme has been present from the 
dawn of time, it's not only been taken seriously until recently when children are 
murdering school teachers and peers. In this essay I will propose from my point of view 
some solutions and ways to prevent offences committed by children and what cause 
them to become juvenile delinquents.
	First of all I believe that education is one of the most important factors that lead 
to children committing offences. I believe that if a child is educated from the very 
beginning with a strict anti violent education, the child will tend to avoid such 
situations. Recent studies have proven that what a child sees at home will reflect on its 
personality, for instance if a child perceives aggressive behavior at home, its most likely 
that the child will adopt an aggressive personality. Children live what they learn and 
abuse is a learned behavior. According to the American Bureau of Justice Assistance, 
63% of all domestic violence offenders had either seen their mothers abused or had 
themselves been abused as children. 
       On the other hand, youth psychologists say that it doesn't matter how you 
educate a children, if the Childs friends are delinquents, its more than probable that he 
or she will follow the delinquent activity. What this means is that the child is put under 
pressure to do things and eventually does them even if it doesn't want to. However I 
believe that this statement is incorrect, I believe that if a child is brought up in a 
respecting household and has self confidence in one self, it will be able to say no to 
these situations and avoid doing things it doesn't want to do.
       	Although home education is important in the upbringing of a child, I 
believe that the school years of a child are crucial to determine its future behaviour. In 
school yards there are normally three types of students, the 'nerds', 'bullies' and 
intermediate. Depending on what group the child belongs to, it will determine whether 
its going to be a rough adult prone to commit crimes, or a depressed adult with 
psychological problems. According to Ron Banks bullies, a study on Scandinavian  
school students show that 60% of those characterized as bullies had at least one criminal 
conviction by the age of 24. whereas the victims <Q> <R>.
       However students surveyed by Oliver, Hoover, and Hazler (1994) founf that a 
clear majority believed that it wasn't the fact that the 'nerds' where an easy target to 
bully, but because they provoked the bullies to bully them, and that the bullies where 
doing them good by teaching them how to fight back. Although this argument might 
sound convincing with respect to that of teaching the weak how to fight back and to 
defend themselves, I don't believe it's the appropriate way by which they are doing it, 
bullying is not the right answer. 
       Some possible solutions from my point of view to try and eradicate bullying at 
school is to not only focus on the bully and the victim, but to focus on the group in 
general. This way instead of only helping the implicated, we are also helping the group 
to know the consequences and what bullying really does. I believe that another way of 
expanding this idea is that of role playing. Getting the children to play each role, the 
bully and the victim, will help them realise that its degrading and not a nice feeling, and 
hopefully reduce the amount of bullying taking place.
       Secondly, from my point of view the media scene is another aspect that's 
causing youths to accept violence and crime as something normal and accepted in 
society. Sometimes we can see the effects of violence on television instantly on children 
for example when the watch power rangers, immediately after a fight they mimic there 
moves and fight with each other. Although it's not always present right away, normally 
these characteristics come gradual after hearing and seeing the same message over and 
over again, such as smoking, stealing, graffiti, swearing and so on. I believe that 
television is one the most influential factors that contributes to child violence, but there 
are also other factors such as, videogames and magazines. These two contribute largely, 
for example, video games. Violence and crime in my opinion is seen at its fullest grand 
theft auto. A game where you kill, rob and have sex with prostitutes. Although this is 
the best game sold throughout the world in 2004, there have been many reports among 
worried parents about what the game contains. They believe it's causing young kids to 
believe that to shoot and run over people is fine. But according to game revolution, with 
the release of this game, the number of violent crimes among youths in 2004 has 
dropped a further 0.8%, even with the release of 'Grand Theft Auto San Andreas'
       	A possible solution to this sort of problem with the media I believe is to 
create a sort of filter on the television and on the internet. This way most of the criminal 
and violent content will be eliminated and out of reach of children. Also I believe there 
are other solutions such as monitoring the amount of time children spend watching 
television and playing video games, and also encouraging children to play more sports 
and to become more active is educational programs, such as theatre and volunteer work.
       Thirdly, living in poverty I believe contributes largely to the cause of young 
children committing crimes and influences in the way they act. A child that doesn't 
have the entire necessities essential to survive is prone to become a young delinquent. 
For example, a child who needs food and water is surely going to steal food and water 
in order to survive. Although the act of stealing is not justified by the law system, to me 
in these circumstances are justified. These kids have no money and no food, there 
parents are exploited or drug or alcoholics and don't care much about there children. 
They are forced to fight for them selves and most often fall into the life of drug, alcohol 
and crime path. On the other hand, police authorities say that this isn't an excuse, they 
say that there are sufficient services that help children in this type of situation.
       	To conclude, we have seen that children are moulded based on what they 
live as children. If a child sees violence everyday and lives it on a regular basis, its more 
than likely that that child will become a delinquent and do petty crimes. In order to try 
and stop this, as mentioned in my essay, is to educate children strictly regarding 
violence, not only at home but also at school. Although education is not the only way to 
try and solve this problem, there are other solutions such as that of helping children and 
families living in poverty. Helping these families with food and shelter, I believe that 
the reduction of crimes committed by children in these situations will be reduced. 
Society should become more aware of this alarming problem as everyone is forms part 
of the problem consciously or unconsciously by accepting violence and tolerating it as it 
should be done.

