  

Police <Q> What happens when police forget 
about  what they are here for? In this essay I will try to explain the failure of western 
societies police departments,their inmunity and their completly freedom of doing what 
ever they want with no punishment at all because of a self defense model of work. 
England ,July 22 , 2005. A  27 years old,brasialian citizen was killed  at Stockwell 
subway station , fired eight times by police officers that  mistaked him with a terrorist 
member of Al-Qaeda that days before had attacked London's subway. Police 
departmet argued that  <Q>. This official 
version of what happend is quite away from the one that familiars gaved.  No matter 
what really happend the family of Jean Charles recieved a miserable check of 22.000 
euros in compensation of what happened. Not only this , that from my point of view is 
just unacceptable , but something that is really humiliating is that this crime was clearly 
hidden away from society untill family members of the victim stand up and reclaim legal 
responsabilities of what had happened. Scotland Yard police departmen was incredibly 
suported by the Pime Minister Tony Blair, who justified the action tooked away by the 
police officers justifying it as a "Casualty" . I will like to express that no "casualty" can 
end up with the death of a innocent , goverments can not defend what is indefendable 
no matter the circumstances in which it has occured . This police officers have remaind 
in anonimity and have recieved no punishment ,something that can only be considered 
as unfair. 

In my opinion police do what ever they want without any control and with the continious 
consent of politicians. A clear example for this is what happened in the public 
demonstrations all along the world against Irak war , thousands of people were 
severally punished with total impunity by police in this public demontrations <Q>  Police officers 
must be controlled , they are suposed to be controled by themselfs by supperiors ,but 
what happens when their supèriors justify their actions ? Francisco Javier Ansuategui  
,responsable for police actions during this public demonstrations, not only justified this 
brutal action but he ordered them . This is a clear example in which supperiors have 
failed in their comitment of controlling police  actions, so giving a person the 
resposansibility of controlling police department is not enough . Trials are still an 
uthopy , non of these agentes wich abused of their authority have been judgedand 
probably they will never be judged. 
Police are supossed to be the protectors of  law and justice but probably they are the 
only ones that do not recieve a sufficient punishment fot their actions , this is crlearly 
seen in  Juan Martínez Galdeano case, a 39 yaers old who died becauses of a brutal 
action taked by police officers in Roquetas de Mar police station, <Q> This is just 
unacceptable , just six months on inhabilitation for killing a men, hiding documents, and 
lying to the authorities. Who can we feel safe with this kind of justice?  

In the United States of America we can find thousands of examples of police abuses, 
one of this examples could be the one of  Devin , a 13 years old boy which was killed 
by police officers in Los Angeles in February 2005 after a pursuit that tooked no long 
than 4 minutes . Police officer argued that he had shotted <Q> . The boy 
killed was alone in the car, but the problem was that he was a black boy. Racism is a 
very serious problem in America, we fin thousands of cases in which police use diferent 
ways of treatment depending in the suspects skin color , or even their sexuality.  
I think thatpolice officers should have psychological evaluation tests all over their 
career, not only at the begining as it happends nowdays. They have tu support extreme 
situations and theese afects their social behaviours,depression is one of the most 
common illness that police officers suffer, I think tah they will never recover in most 
cases so instead of letting them continue with their job they should be retaired and 
reordered in other jobs. 
The drug's abuse by police is a very important thing to discuss about,the use of 
cocaine is very frequent in police officers, it can not be really demostrated because of 
the social alarm this will cause but several studies have demonstrated that more tahn 
the 10 % of police officers destinated into the Drug's department have had problem 
with drug's abuse,this makes  police officers a real danger for society as they are not 
capable of maintaining control of extreme situations. 
The power that police has is too much , most of police officers do not have to pay their 
bills, such as speed abuses with their cars or parking bills , they just go to their friends 
in the department, expose their problemes and in a moment all the bills, all the reports 
and problems just dissapear .


To end up, I will like to express  solutions which I think could help society to get rid of 
this problem ; Police officers should be controlled by an independent organism, which 
should have power enough to judge, and impart justice to theese criminals, All police 
officers that are suspicious of any crime should directly be named and clearly pointed 
so everyone could now their names and with this defend our rights, Citicens should 
have the same power of punishment as police has, and so it would not matter if you are 
a police officer or a simple citizen  to report for example a speed limit abuse . Police 
abuse is probably one of the mos important problems society has , the feeling of being 
alone against everyone develops in lots os cases into the self justice, making people 
do what they think is right because so police does.  We won't be safe from police untill 
we controll police, and so our testimony should have the same value as a police 
officers one. 











