      
      In our present time there is a remarkable tendency in the society of the Western 
World to value more the studies that can be more economically productive and practical 
for the entering in the labour world than the humanistic studies that are considered non-
practical and, sometimes, even superfluous. This is clearly noticeable in the educational 
programs that the governments of many countries of this area of the world establish and 
in the requirements asked by many enterprises to their possible future workers. 
Moreover, there is a growing mistrust in the validity of some of these studies, since they 
are considered to be by many people very subjective and opposed to the objectivity of 
scientific studies. There are some groups of people that oppose the measures of the 
governments to limit the attention and investments devoted to humanistic studies and 
want society to take more interest in these fields of knowledge. In this essay I am going 
to present different viewpoints concerning the study of humanities and I am going to 
show my point of view, which is that it is important that humanities are present in the 
educational programs because they are very useful to acquire knowledge about 
important issues of humankind and its society.
      
      On the one hand we find the vast movement of society towards other kind of 
interests different from the ones that prevailed in other times. In the time being many 
people tend to reject theoretical knowledge and look for a more practical one. It is not 
rare to find a young student claiming that he/she prefers the sciences, because, in his/her 
view, they are more practical and they make people think, as opposed to the humanities 
that consist on only learning by heart what the teacher or the book says. Many people 
think that humanistic learning is not really useful. Some people like this kind of studies 
but consider that they are more studies for pleasure than studies with a real practical 
application in life. In this group of people we find, sometimes, some teachers of 
humanistic subjects and people who have got their degree in any of the humanistic 
branches.
      
      According to an American scholar, David Reynolds focusing on the studies of 
literature and art <Q> <R>. A few years ago according to Professor Michael Osborne 
in an speech in his Beijing Forum <Q>. Now, according to him, the situation is different and 
it seems that there is a <Q> <R>. The governments consider that this kind of studies is a luxurious waste 
of money, because in their view, they do not contribute to the development of the 
society.
      
      Some people try to make more people have interest in the humanities and to press 
the governments to give importance to humanities in their educational programs. David 
Reynolds, for instance, wrote an essay in which he defends the biography as a method 
to make humanities recover the credibility they have lost, because biographies are 
objective. In his view, the professionals of the field of humanities, especially those who 
study the fields of art and literature have to try to make people see that humanities can 
be objective and they are not a disorganised field of knowledge where any theory can be 
valid <R>. 
      
      The summary of an international conference entitled "Researching, vocational 
education and training" celebrated in 1999 expresses the view that <Q> <R>. She suggests doing a teaching person to person in technical 
universities since, in her opinion, <Q> <R>.
      
      There are some people who defend that some studies related to humanities are 
considered as sciences, because they claim that they do research to find objective 
results. This is the case of analytic philosophy <R> and linguistics. It seems 
that the search for objectivity is an argument to reject humanistic teaching. 
      In my view, it is fundamental to preserve an important space for the teaching of 
humanities in our time in all the stages of education. I think they are really useful for 
people to understand better the world and, in this way, improve their lives. Humanities 
in many occasions are no directly practical for living and they need to be accompanied 
by other kinds of knowledge to be useful in the world of work. However, the knowledge 
of one's own language and other languages to communicate, the knowledge of the 
sociological problems of the current times and the reasons why they exist, the 
knowledge of ancient cultures and cultures of other areas of the world, the Knowledge 
of how literature and cinema influence over people's lives, of the different religious 
systems of the world, of political, economical and social history, of how art has 
accompanied the different stages of history, the different notions of art that exist... are 
useful to ameliorate the understanding of the human being and, in this way, they can be 
useful to be applied to other purposes. In my opinion, the teaching of humanities is not a 
luxurious waste of time, but a fruitful contribution to the development of the society.
      
      It can be argued that humanities, since they are not experimental sciences, can 
never be objective and they do not contribute to a better understanding of the reality of 
things. However, I would argue that one of the main discoveries of humanities, the 
deconstruction, instead of lead us to think that apart of experimental sciences, there is 
not possibility to consider any real science more, it can be make us aware of the reasons 
why there are different ways of thinking and considering things, their arguments and 
counterarguments and, in this way, the humanistic learning contributes to a better 
understanding of the human world and its contradictions. Humanities teach people to 
think about important issues of the world, and, in this way they make people be more 
prepared both for their personal and professional lives. I believe that inverting time and 
money in the learning of humanities is inverting in the improvement of individuals and 
with that, to the improvement of the society.
      
      In this essay I have presented the tendency of the modern world to marginalize 
humanistic education sometimes because of the search of practical knowledge and 
sometimes for a search of objective knowledge, I have also presented the attempts of 
some groups of people to make humanities recover the prestige they had in other times. 
Finally, I have shown my point of view about this issue, which is that it is important to 
maintain humanistic studies in the educational programs to contribute to the 
development of the society and I have shown my arguments for this opinion.
      
      
      
      

      
