
    
    In our modern societies, one of the most controversial issues is whether people 
under- age who commit serious crimes should be judged by a criminal court and be 
treated as adults or they should be judged by a special juvenile court and receive softer 
punishments with the hope of a change in their behaviour. The Resolution nº 45/III 
approved by the Assembly of the United Nations in 1990 recognises it <Q> <R>. In Spain the last reform of the minors criminal law 
is accused of being inappropriate by some lawyers because on their views <Q> <R>. In Germany the article number 3 of the penal code 
says:<Q> <R> are good examples of different positions towards the minors law "  This is a very 
complex issue in which it is essential to take into account the understanding of the 
youngsters of the crimes they commit, the conditions in which criminality develops and 
the efficiency of the punishments that adult criminals receive by themselves between 
other aspects that are worth considering. In this essay I am going to show the reasons 
why I consider that youngsters under-age who are old enough to be self-conscious of 
the crimes they commit, should receive the same punishments as if they were adults. 
For this purpose, I am going to comment some of the aspects that feed the polemic such 
as the question of which kind of judicial treatment reduces criminality in a better way, 
my suggestion to the difficult election of the age in which young people can start to be 
judged as adults for the crimes they commit and the consideration of a better 
reintegration in society and total abandonment of criminal activities in young people 
cases than in adult ones.
    
    One of the main reasons why there is such a polemic it is because there are different 
opinions concerning which is the best way of preventing young people form committing 
crimes again. There are many people who think that treating juveniles as adult criminals 
does not stop their criminality, but even it makes them <Q> <R>. However, these arguments 
can be weakened if we consider the results of a research made on bullying and their 
results, which shows clearly that bullies at school become criminals much more easily 
when they grow up. This study warns people of the danger of considering bullying as a 
<Q> <R>. 
We could infer of this study the fact than when young people start committing crimes; 
they are much more likely to continue committing them if they are not severely 
punished. We can also add the results of an interesting study done by the sociologist 
Claire Johnson who interviewed 19 young men who were serving sentences for 
homicide. She found that <Q> 
and that some of them considered that <Q>, because they 
were only to be there <Q> <R>. It could be argued 
that the younger a person is, the easier will be to reintegrate her/him into the society 
and, for this reason, it could be more appropriate to try to give youngster who commit 
crimes an education rather than to punish them an introduce them so early in the 
criminal world. But going to prison does not mean that the possibility of beginning a 
new life is not possible, so the question would not be whether punishments young 
people should be tried as adults, but whether punishments that are used with adults are 
appropriate or not.  
    
    A second aspect that it is worth considering is the age from which we can start to 
consider young people self-conscious of the crimes they commit. I would say that 
fourteen years old is a proper age to be considered. Not only because the person is 
mature enough to know when she/he is doing something evil, but also because 
adolescence is a crucial period of life because the behaviour and mode of living that a 
young person takes will determine in a great amount what kind of person she/he is 
going to be in the future. It could be argued that there are plenty of cases in which a 
person who has had a problematic adolescence, has become more "mature", a totally 
different person in her adulthood. Although this is true, this change does not always 
take place and, when it does, it normally arises too late to repair all the damages made 
by the improper behaviour of this person in her youth. Moreover, these people normally 
assure that they would like to live this period again to try to make good the mistakes 
they have done. For this reason, I defend the idea that judging adolescents as adults, will 
make them become more aware of the kind of life that could be waiting for them if they 
continue doing criminal activities.
    
    Some people do find a contradiction in the fact that young people who have no yet 
the totality of civil rights, receive the same punishment as adults. They question the 
coherency of the laws and say that if people under age are not considered mature 
enough to make adult decisions, they should not be considered at the same level as 
fully-grown people. From my point of view, we cannot put at the same level all the 
conditions of maturity. Principles such as the respect for other people's life and physical 
and emotional integrity can be easily learnt in childhood. The respect for other people's 
possessions or about the harm that drug dealing causes in society do not need being 
more than 18 years old to be understood. This argument can be responded by saying 
that some young people do not have opportunities to learn such principles, because their 
family environment was not appropriate to develop such a basic ethical thinking. 
However, I would argue that despite the fact that this is true, we cannot simply accept 
this as a valid excuse for justifying what they do in a certain way and, in consequence, 
make their punishment softer. Except in the case of people condemned to death penalty 
sentences, everyone who has committed a crime has the opportunity of repentance and 
of starting a new life.
    
    Education is one of the main arguments that people against people under-age being 
judged like adults use to support their position. The purpose of juvenile court processes 
is "to help young offenders rather than establish their guilt". For this reason, juvenile 
courts are "not considered trial courts" and they have "fewer restrictions and 
procedures" and, in consequence, juvenile court judges are free to impose the sanctions 
they think are appropriate. This fact is used by some judges to impose <Q> on young people <R>. 
For this reason, I do not consider this system a fair one, since it causes that the kind of 
sanction that teenagers receive depends more on their luck of finding one judge or 
another than on the harm of the crime by itself. Senator Joseph Biden, chairman of the 
Senate Judiciary committee, a critic of tougher youth crime laws told the senate that 
<Q>. I entirely agree with the idea that education plays an 
important role in the case of young people committing crimes, even in the case of older 
people; but I do not think that this assumption means that youngsters do not have to be 
judged and sentenced like adults in case they were aware of the crimes they committed. 
I believe that adult punishments are not necessarily contradictory with the idea of 
education and reintegration in society, but that they are complementary. I would suggest 
that educational measures should be taken to make better the conditions of people 
incarcerated, since it is something possible and realistic.
    
    The last point that I'm going to cover has to do with one of the main arguments of 
defenders of children rights. A research in US has found that "young people 
incarcerated with adults are five times as likely to be sexually assaulted by other 
inmates, are twice as likely to be beaten by staff, are 50% more likely to be assaulted 
with a weapon and are eight times as likely to commit suicides". It is undeniable that 
this is a strong argument that no person concerned with human rights can ignore, but I 
would discuss that this problem has to do entirely with the jail conditions by themselves 
and it is something that also affects adult people. So my suggestion is that strong 
measures should be taken to make better the conditions of people incarcerated, since it 
is something possible and realistic.
    
    To sum up, I have covered the main arguments of people against youngsters under 
age being judged as adults, which are their doubts about the efficiency of incarcerating 
people as the best mode of preventing them from committing crimes again, their hope of 
a change in their behaviour in a easier way than in adult criminality., the contradiction 
they find in the fact that people who have not still the totality of civil rights are punished 
like adults, their bet for educational measures rather than punishing ones and their 
denounce against the abuses that young people suffer in prisons. I have also expressed 
my reasons why I do not consider those are arguments so determining: the danger of 
being too permissive with young criminals, their self-awareness and cruelty in many 
crimes, the possibility of learning ethics from very early ages, the non-necessary 
contradiction between punishment and opportunity of changing and the fact that that 
violation of human rights that young people suffer are a different problem that has to be 
studied by itself and is not necessarily intrinsic in the idea of punishment. I have also 
suggested an age, 14 years old, in which a person can be considered fully responsible of 
her acts. As a conclusion I would say that it seems that both educational measures and 
punishment have to be taken into account in order to fight against minor criminality; the 
real debate is which one has to be more accentuated in each case. 
    
    
    
    
    

