In our present society, being a model younger than eighteen is not a problem for many 
modelling companies.  Lots of firms use model faces or bodies to promote their 
products on the television, magazines and catalogues; others use actors or celebrities 
with the same purpose. Also, each two seasons, haute couture is shown on the catwalks 
by models devoted to this field of fashion. Probably, till here, everything is fine and 
usual in our eyes, but what happen if we look at the backstage? Is everything as 
beautiful and smart as we think? Some people linked to this circle has denounced 
problems like drugs, anorexia, abuses or prostitution. I personally believe that these 
condemned items are certainly related to fashion world and I do not think it is for a girl, 
even if she has as perfect measurements as an adult model.

In my opinion, drugs are one of the most daily aspect in the actual world fashion. 
Nowadays, many celebrities are involved in drugs affairs of which some recognize it 
and some that do not. On the television, lots of times we can see comments about this 
aspect which show people who have seen other people who have taken drugs, others 
who have never seen anything, others who declare themselves, and so on.
According to the latest news, Kate Moss, a very popular model, has caused a great 
controversial with <Q> <R>. She is now about her thirties but she started her career at the age of 14 <R>.She could have started very young with these problems and, I think, she is 
only an example of what young models can have of the reach of their hands.

On the other hand, lots of models take a healthy life because they are really concerned 
with their aspect <Q> <R>. It can be 
thought by their arguments, they would never take a drug because it will reflect in their 
physical aspect. Nevertheless, they have, of course, heard rumours about substance 
abuse and exploitation of underage models which they consider it is reflected on the 
younger models faces who look older than them, due to, they also assure that fashion is 
a hard world for a teenager to be exposed to <R>.

Not always the physical aspect worry is as healthy as we would wish, because, from my 
point of view, it could lead the models to an illness as anorexia or bulimia. An 
experienced model knows how to take her meal, what is fattening, what she can eat and 
what she can not. An inexperienced model could have a paternal support whose advice 
would guide her, on the contrary of other fainter ones that unfortunately fall into these 
diseases. However, both bulimia and anorexia are diseases which anyone as young as 
adult people could have but it is quite true that young people is more prone to fall, 
above all teenagers, female and fashion followers. I strongly believe that many models 
are asked to lose weight and, consecuently, it could entail eating disorders. A deeply 
personality could say no, but it would involve a job losing and it would depend what is 
more important to the model.

Protection to these underage models is one of the most basic points to take into account 
and I consider it is not this way because sexual abuse scandals are common in the main 
fashion cities. It is true that many agencies give a big protection to these young models 
and they feel very confident when it comes to go to party, for instance. It is as well true 
that many of them, besides, have their paternal protection. However, some of the 
evidences show that it is not always so accurate. A fifteen years old model, suffered 
several rapes by day during two weeks, in Milan, where she was working. She and her 
father reported the crime and the judicial investigation accuse of <Q> <R>. The famous designer, Giorgio Armani, declares 
about this case that <Q> <R>.

The model agency involved in the case, assure <Q> <R>. 
For my part, I feel that there is no practically any difference between a girl of sixteen 
and another one of fifteen, they both are still immature to face alone to fashion industry. 
Anyway, the age is not important for many agencies and designers. <Q> <R>. But it has changed since a few ages till today because a 
28 years old model states <Q> <R>. 

It appears to me that prostitution is a resort that many models use to reach the peak, 
because it is known only the best ones can live by fashion. Most of models have faced 
up to many castings only to get some photos in an unknown magazine; many of them 
have followed doing small works like those for getting something better. Some models 
got it and some left their short career because they realise the difficulty of this world. 
There are models who declare they have given great opportunity offers or money in 
change for "company". The models assure not to accept them but I would maintain that 
someone or other would have accepted any offer for being where they are. 

In conclusion, this essay has presented several cases in which a model under eighteen 
could be damaged in this tough world. I have considered the points argued are the most 
controversial of fashion industry and what is more for a kid involved in it. I believe that 
unless the girls were put in a bubble for their protection, those problems are on the 
street, in the world and, in this case, in the fashion and it would be very difficult to 
avoid all these points when the circle where they move is full up. However, I strongly 
recommend finding some solutions because it should not be allowed to put in danger the 
integrity of what is only a girl although she could be the best of the profession. 


