
Anti-smoking laws approved lately worldwide are, nowadays, one of the most 
controversial items discussed in our society. Smoking ban in public places is 
considered, for many people, a real ordeal, instead of others who think it allows them to 
breathe pure air. There are also many smokers who accept this law because they 
understand that smoke is very harmful and do not want to disturb people around them. 
However, there are also many, and even non-smoking people, that disagree with it 
because they consider this as a prohibition that does not respect individual freedom. In 
this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, a ban is not a solution for a problem but I 
will also tell the positive aspects of the law.

Many countries are developing plans to restrict smoking in public places. Most 
countries that have approved an anti-tobacco law have done similar prohibitions as 
<Q> <R>. Australia, for instance, has gone more extremist because it 
has been banned to smoke on the beach; or Bhutan that has introduce a total ban on 
tobacco sales, with severe penalties imposed, in order to create a smoke-free nation 
<R>. These laws have the purpose of reducing the 
high rate of smokers, but in my opinion, people will smoke in the same quantity. The 
time they spend at the smoking area will be a recovery of the cigarettes they have not 
been able to consume in the non-smoking zones.

Besides smokers, tobacco sellers are also damaged by these laws. Places like 
newsagent's, restaurants, pubs, bars, supermarkets, etc are not allowed to sell cigarettes 
anymore. It is forbidden not to sell it in places where is not allowed to smoke. The 
opponents of the law criticize this because <Q> <R>.
Some of these places, whose profits were in a large extent from the tobacco, might be 
forced to close down. On the other hand, the supporters could think if it is more difficult 
to find where to buy, it is easier not to consume and each time there will be more people 
who stop smoking. I strongly believe that a bar where there is no tobacco selling is not 
enough for people to give it up, just for the owner to lose the money that other is going 
to earn, because the smoker will continue smoking.

The risks that passive smoking suffers are too high to ignore. This is one of the 
arguments that supporters of the law give evidence about. According to a research from 
Imperial College <Q> <R>. This study is quite alarming 
because, in my view, someone who wants to breathe nicotine is free to do it but 
respecting people who do not have to be damaged at all. Although, I think, this is not a 
reason for a ban but strong restrictions. On the other hand, opponents of the smoking 
ban maintain that <Q> <R>. However, Medical Associations and Scientific Committee on 
Tobacco and Health <Q> <R>. for supporting the law and to give evidence 
of smoking damages smokers and non-smokers that is what opponents are denying.

Following this, the components of the tobacco damage smokers and non-smokers 
through smoke. <Q> <R>. Lots of researchers have tried to study 
which are exactly the components of tobacco but this is something that is still unknown. 
It is known that <Q> <R>. Many 
of the substances, that tobacco smoke contains, cause cancer or respiratory problems 
that affect to smokers and people around them. This is why I believe that smoking is a 
personal matter but always being careful with the people who do not have why to 
breathe infected air.

In the countries or cities, with a recent smoking ban, is usual to see now people standing 
outside places with their cigarettes. In Spain, it is said that <Q> <R>. I strongly 
believe that this decision is taken because the owners of the bar know that lots of their 
consumers are smoker and they do not want to lose them. However, many restaurants 
have not a smoker area, so people have dinner and left their tables to go outside for 
smoking. This situation is also given at workplaces where smoking people demand five 
minutes for taking a cigarette. In my opinion, this is not a fair situation for non-smoking 
people who do not have the necessity of smoking and that means these people will not 
have the five minutes that a smoker has. But it is also comprehensible that tobacco 
consumers are addicted to nicotine and many of them cannot wait till eating time for 
smoking.

Another point is that many companies are born or take more importance and publicity 
because of the new law. Companies that ensure the success of helping people who wish 
to give up smoking in exchange of a great sum of money; others, like NGOs, make it 
too and just asking charity; and Councils are also offering a free help. There are many 
people who have said that with the ban they will try to give it up and this makes a good 
reason to take into account for the supporters of the law <Q> <R>. So these companies are thought for helping people that are not 
able to do it without help. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the great majority of 
smoking people do not want to be forced to quit for a law in which they are against, in 
any case for their health and in the time they decide.

To conclude, this essay has shown that there are lots of arguments against and for a 
smoking ban. I have considered some important facts that have made this law as 
controversial as it is. Neither prohibition of selling, nor damages caused by tobacco, nor 
plans for free-smoke places and nor penalties will make people stop smoking. I believe 
that a ban will not finish with tobacco in any country, as Governments are trying, 
although some strong restrictions would made that non-smoking people would be able 
at last to breathe pure air in public places and workplaces. Besides all these things, 
smokers should have respect enough for not bothering people around them.
 


