
Gay and lesbian rights have been one of the most controversial problems in our recent 
days. The evolution of the ideas in most society have allowed, in some countries, 
several advantages to homosexual couples that a few years before could not be 
imaginable. However, these are not the ideas of everybody: large extents of people do 
not agree with these concessions and fight against them at the same time gay 
community, and the people who support them, state its demands. In this essay I will try 
to discuss, as objectively as I can, some of the main viewpoints about homosexual 
rights.

To begin with, there are lots of arguments in favour of giving rights to homosexual 
people. Many people would say there is no difference between a heterosexual person 
and a homosexual one, and so that, there is no a possible justification for treat gays or 
lesbian in a discriminatory way or just different of a person who is not. For that reason, 
it could be argued that marriage, what is a common event for a hetero-couple, should be 
allowed for gay-couples and they could have the choice of wanting to marry or not. 
Some European countries like Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, France, Britain and 
Belgium have already recognized <Q> <R> what is a great advance for the gay community which has 
been fighting for this right during decades. What matters of a marriage is the fact of 
sharing everything and being recognized as a legal couple with the rights of legal ones 
as to take leave if your partner has been operated, for example, or leave your pension as 
an officer of New Jersey who has a lung cancer and wanted the pension she earned for 
her couple, who is a woman <R>. 

Some arguments against homosexual people are maintained, mostly by religious 
associations. Many of them would maintain that <Q> <R>. There is a group 
composed of very conservative Christians, Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, etc which continue 
with restrictions against homosexuals including prohibition of same-sex marriage 
<R>. It is considered same-gender union impossible 
because for a marriage being a marriage it is needed a man and a woman.

Many homosexual people have to hide their sexual tastes for their lifetimes because 
they are worried for being discriminated against in the job. It could be argued, for 
example, that in Colorado gay people can be fired just for being gay or lesbian <R>. However other <Q> <R>. Many companies have an interior politic where there is a clause containing the 
prohibition of discriminating people for their sexual tastes. In Florida it has recently 
been reported that <Q> <R>. In other countries like 
Uganda, a homosexual person cannot tell his/her sexual preferences because a few 
months ago new homophobic laws were voted in the Parliament. Many gay people are 
putting to death there for being homosexual <R>.

Following this argument, homosexual people are treated in a discriminatory way in 
public places. <Q> <R>. This could be a reason for gays creating gay bars where they can behave as they 
are themselves and not making a role. Nevertheless, this situation has place in less 
establishments than years before, in spite of many people are still maintaining the same 
ideas, some other have developed an open-minded. However there is also a housing 
discrimination where <Q> <R>.

Lesbian and gay community are claiming their right of being parents. People who are in 
favour of this might argue that <Q> <R>. These children would grow looked after by a family, regardless of the sexual 
orientation of their parents. They would have the same attentions and cares in a 
homosexual family as in a heterosexual one, what matters is the happiness of the 
children. On the other hand, those who support the idea of conventional family refuse 
roundly the proposition of homosexual adoption. They declare that children need 
equally a mother and a father figure <R> to constitute 
properly the basis of the family, so that a single parent could neither give them an 
appropriate education. This is because they do not represent the fundamental institution 
of the parents which is marriage.

In addition to this, when a couple separate and there are children involved, then start a 
new problem. If the couple is heterosexual but the separation is because one member 
has declared his/her homosexuality, the mentioned member might suffer discrimination 
at the moment of deciding the custody of the children. <Q> <R>. For people who are in favour of giving rights to 
homosexual people it would be correct to value both sides and give the custody to the 
most appropriate for the children when all the aspects would have been evaluated. 
However, people against homosexuals would not doubt in giving the custody to the 
heterosexual one just because is the "normal" of the couple.

To sum up, we can see that there are many arguments both defending and condemning 
gays and lesbian rights. Those who support them see each human being with the same 
rights and possibilities independently of the sexual orientation of each one; and those 
others, more conservative, believe that a homosexual orientation is a consequence of 
having different rights without a possibility of reaching human rights. The arguments in 
favour seem more reasonable because a non-religious person do not have the Church 
and Bible ideas where it is said that homosexuality is a sin and punished by God. It 
could also be said that as individuals we should have the same rights without 
concerning sexual preferences because we are all human beings. 
