        In the last few years the most powerful country in the world, United States, has 
witnessed an enormous increase of violence and crime rate in its  society. This is mainly 
because of the private ownership of guns.  Many people think that guns protect themselves from 
criminals or at least they feel safe carrying one; but  those against gun ownership said that the 
private ownership of guns leads to a higher rate of crime and violence in streets and also in 
schools. In my view, the problem of this private ownership of guns is a terrible problem that 
needs to be dealt immediately by the USA government, as I will try to show in this essay.
        
        Firstly, I believe that there are too many guns in the USA streets. Between 1973 and 
1992, the rate of gun ownership increased by forty-five percent and nowadays this rate has 
growth considerably. Its important to say that since the beginnings of the American history the 
wounds have been inside the society in order to protect themselves from invasions. This is the 
clear example of the south of America in where the frontier has suffered lots of immigration 
problems that is why people begin to carry guns in order to protect themselves from the 
immigrant people. David Kopel, a researcher of American society (1995) said  that <R>. This quotation is supported by lots of Americans that 
means that the gun culture is implanted in the society. The problem here , in my opinion, it is 
not the guns but the culture. That is why is such a difficult problem trying to banning guns is the 
USA. However other people said that it is not the culture but the guns who kill people. But in 
my opinion, the American culture need to be changed. Its not possible to be in the streets as if 
you were in the West times. From my point of view, the only ones that should be allowed to 
carry guns would be the members of the police corp.
        
        Another important aspect, I would like to argue, is about guns at home. A gun in the 
home  increases the likelihood of an unintentional shooting, particularly among children. In 
2000, 600 children and adolescents died of accidental gunshot wounds in their house. Most 
gunshot injuries happen after kids discover loaded guns at home. For instance, on March 21, 
2002, a 14-year-old South Carolina boy deliberately shot and killed his 12-year-old foster sister. 
The boy had taken live shotgun shells from his father's house and used them in a shotgun that he 
had taken from his mother's bedroom. This tragedy happens every day in the American society. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) says that <R>.
However, in my opinion, the decision to own a gun is up to each family. Gun safety comes in 
two parts: what the parents do and what the kids do. Parents need to lock their guns and 
ammunition separately, and hide the keys where children cannot reach them. And kids need to 
understand that guns are not  toys and learn how to behave around them.
        
	Continuing talking about children, I am  going to deal with a theme related with guns 
and children at schools. American news reported nearly every day a massacre from a child who 
carrying a gun has killed his teachers and classmates. One of the most recent examples 
happened in Arkansas. Two boys, aged 11 and 13, killed four girls and one teacher, wounding 
nine more girls and one other teacher. This example and the amount of them that happen in 
America need to get to an end. It is very important to note that gun control laws do not prevent 
little kids from using guns and harming people. In addition, the latest video games are very 
violent, something that  help children with their marksmanship and to get over their fear of 
shooting someone. However , there are other people that think that the problem here come from 
their houses and the education that they receives from their parents. A study by the U.S. Dept. 
of Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention found that children who use 
firearms with parental supervision, as far as hunting and target shooting, are less likely 
to commit acts of violence and street crimes. I am of the opinion that proper education in school 
and other places to teach how to use a gun and to respect guns as a dangerous weapon is what is 
needed to reduce gun violence in the schools, apart from the moral values and right judgments 
they should learn from their parents.
        
        It has been argued that banning guns in the USA will not solve the crime problem. It is 
said that if guns are not available then another weapon will be used or an older gun. The law 
will not stop a person who is determined to cause someone harm. Some people said that the 
laws against the use of guns would keep guns off the streets but out of the hands of innocent 
people that try to defend themselves from criminals. The Riffleman Association supports this, 
saying that <Q> They also said that <Q> It is important to know that there is no evidence that supports that gun 
control would reduce crime in the streets. However , I think that the American society would 
trust more on their police corps. They are people who have been trained to protect the citizens 
so they do not need to take the law into their own hands.
        
        Finally, I would like to argue about the important role that education plays among the 
youngs in America. American students need proper education to know what is good and what is 
bad. The uncultured with the easy availability of guns and  also with the influence of drugs and 
alcohol are from my point of view the main factors of the increasing of violence in streets and in 
schools. The first step in  the violence prevention is recognize that we are all capable of 
committing violent acts. However our moral values and the education we have received at 
school and through our lives  must say NO to violent acts. Nowadays neither the education nor 
the parents of children do teach moral values and judgements. But violent videogames and films 
damage children's brains and they feel confused about what is right or wrong. My solution to 
this problem is that programs about violence education should be developed collaboratively 
with parents, students, educators, law enforcers, probation officers, the courts, social service 
workers and other community leaders. As Colman McCarthy said, a former columnist of the 
Washington Post, <Q>. 
I believe that schools need a formal programm of violence education in order to avoid violence 
in the future generations.
        
        To conclude, I think that a total ban on private ownership of guns and a proper 
education system, are the basis in order to avoid all the problems of violence. Without guns at 
homes, children do not feel the need to take a gun and play  with it. In addition, banning guns 
will prevent unnecessary defenses in the streets in where a discussion would probably end in a 
massacre. I personally believe that the presence of guns in the society reduce people's reliance 
on the police and this produces that people take the justice into their own hands. If we cannot 
stop the increasing of violence in the American society, future generations will not know the 
word "PEACE".
        
        
        
        
        
        
         




