

       Sex education in public schools has been a controversial issue in the United 
States for over a decade. Traditionally, children are supposed to receive information 
about sex from their parents.  However, they do not always instruct their children on the 
subject. Youth are then left to learn about sex from their friends, television, or movies. 
This often leads to incorrect information about sexual practices something that is 
provoking that US teen birth and sexually  infection rates remain among the highest in 
the western world. This is why in this essay I will discuss if sex education should be 
taught in schools and what type of skills sex education should teach to teenagers.
       
       The history of sex education goes back to the late nineteenth century. Sex 
education then consisted of <Q> <R>. Later on, the mass media 
played a large role in making information on sex available to kids. Many people felt the 
need of a  sex education system in public school. Public schools began teaching 
minimal sex education until the late 1960's, when educational and governmental 
organizations created more developed programs for sex education in schools that have 
remained until now. Supporters of these programmes suggest that sex education in 
schools is necessary in order to combat unwanted pregnancies and sexually diseases. 
However, these ideas meet with the opposition of many people, such as Randy Engel 
<R> that said that <Q>. Others feel that the reason that unwanted pregnancies 

affect America more than most western nations is because <Q> <R>. These two last arguments are rather doubtful because they 
are based mainly in the people religious believes. However the strong one is the first, 
because sex education is really needed to combat the higher rate of teenagers pregnancy.
       
       Some people argue that sexuality education must be taught by the parents. Some 
researches have shown that when parents are open to discussing sexuality with their 
teenagers, teens are  less likely to take the risks involved in having sex, or they do so in 
a more responsible way. The fact is that one in two teens say that <Q> <R>. 
The Church's position shows also that sex education is the duty of parents only, which 
cannot be delegated to others. Mrs. Jean Cola, a member of St. Raymonds Church in 
Mt. Prospect, said, <Q>. However, it 
seems that parents are many times too nervous about the issue of sexuality and in many 
cases they don't know how to answer sexual questions. Supporters of this last argument 
states that the issue of sex education must be provided in schools. Louis Harris Poll 
discovered that nine out of ten parents support sex education in school <R>. Such 
education would probably be most effective if it is incorporated in an educational 
programme concerning human relationships, including attention to personal 

responsibility, and moral and religious aspects of sexuality. This last argument is the 
most important one because sex education in schools help young people to be more 
prepared for life's changes such as puberty, menopause, aging,...

	There are also major differences about when this sex education should be teach 
in schools. Some people would argue that sex education that works starts early, before 
young people reach puberty, and before they have developed established patterns of 
behaviour. Sex education often begin in high school, after many students have already 
begun experimenting sexually. Studies have shown that sex education begun before 
youth are sexually active helps young people stay abstinent and use protection when 
they do become sexually active. The sooner sex education begins, the better, even as 
early as elementary school. 93% of Americans support teaching sexuality education to 
high school age students; 84% support sexuality education for middle and junior high 
school age students <R>. On the 
other hand, some critics say that sex education, especially at a young age, causes the 
children to lose their innocence. Others believe that the education will only cause more 
of what it is supposed to prevent. These last arguments are too general and they can not 
be true in all the cases. What is true is that people need to know what is happening in 
their bodies and they need to learn how to face the problems in relation with sex such as 
the use of contraception or the  prevention of possible diseases.



	 There are different points of view to take into consideration in relation to the 
skills sex education should teach. Researches have found that fifteen percent of 
Americans believe that schools should teach only about abstinence from sexual 
intercourse and that they should not provide information on how to obtain and use 
condoms and other  methods of contraception. This abstinence-only program emphasize 
abstinence from all sexual behaviours and do not cover information on contraceptives, 
masturbation, pregnancy,... However, there is another way of teaching sexuality called 
Comprehensive Sexuality Education. It is a program that starts in nursery schools and 
continues through high school. It tries to help young people in understanding a positive 
view of sexuality, provide them with information and skills about taking care of their 
sexual health. It also helps them to acquire skills in order to make decisions now and in 
the future. Supporters of this program claim that abstinence-only programs are 
ineffective and parents will need to be prepared to teach their teenagers about the topics 
that it misses. Apart from these two points of view, most sex educators agree that the 
most effective programs to reduce teen sex and pregnancy combine the information 
from both programs, not only teach about abstinence but also they must teach about safe 
sex information. Researches have found that thirty-six percent of the Americans, believe 
that abstinence is not the most important thing, and that sex education should focus on 
teaching teens how to make responsible decisions about sex. <R>.  These concerns are very important but the main goal sex education 
must achieve should be help young people grow into sexually healthy adults.



To sum up, an appropriate sex education might therefore have a major role in 
preventing some sexual problems in adulthood such as the spread of sexual diseases, 
unwanted pregnancies,... It must also teach about responsible views on sexual 
behaviour and that sex is part of the normal life of most adult people and not something 
which need to be associated with feelings of shame and guilt. In relation to the place it 
must be taught, it is important that both, schools and parents, take this role seriously in 
order to ensure that  young people are prepared for the opportunities, responsibilities 
and experiences they will face in later life. So schools or parents should give young 
people the facts and the relationship skills they need to become responsible adults, and 
in this way, they could break the cycle of ignorance, denial, and shame that often passes 
from one generation to the next.
















1

