     

      Euthanasia has been a highly controversial topic in the last thirty 
years and nowadays, it continues causing a great debate among all the 
social status and along the world. This debate deals with the legality and 
morality of patients right-to-die. The word euthanasia comes from a Greek 
word, meaning "easy death". Euthanasia is described as the act or practice 
of ending the life of an individual suffering from a terminal illness or an 
incurable condition, as by lethal injection or the suspension of 
extraordinary medical treatment. It is most often performed in a merciful 
way, in order to end suffering. Euthanasia has provoked different reactions 
in people's mind that is why in this essay, I am going to try to present a 
variety of opinions from religious groups and non- religious groups in 
relation with euthanasia. I will also critique them giving my own opinion 
about this issue.
     
     Firstly, we have the Catholic's view about euthanasia. They say that 
Euthanasia and any other form of killing (i.e. murder, suicide) are all the 
same. They support this argument looking at the list of the Ten 
Commandments in which the fifth one states, that <Q>, that 
means that it is prohibited the taking of an innocent life. They also say that 

<Q> because 
God has created humans as an image of himself and if a Christian commits 
suicide, he or she is breaking God's wish. It is also important that  in 1980, 
the Vatican released the 'Declaration on Euthanasia' that states that 
euthanasia was a brutal murder. In my view, I believe that God maybe has 
created us as the image of himself, however when you are suffering a 
terminally illness this image is distortioned. You are not a person, you have 
ceased to be one because you are incapable of enjoying the gift of 
existence; for instance, people  in a vegetative state are living lives that are 
meaningless.  
     
     The second view is based on the Judaism. They believe that human 
life is intrinsically valuable and should be preserved in every instance. 
Jewish law maintains that one has no absolute ownership of one's body. We 
are given a body for a fixed time. We are obliged to guard it and to make 
rational decisions about its care. So in this aspect euthanasia is wrong 
because it is killing before life would naturally end. Jewish believe that 
God has created life, so he is the only one that decide when a person should 
die. I disagree with this beliefs, because I think that life is valuable when 
you have the capacity to make your own decision, when you have the 
capacity for reasoning and if you are in a vegetative state you cannot do 

this. So I think that we respect the value of life by respecting the persons 
autonomy  and allowing them to end their life in the way they want.

     The Islamic view is similar to the other two religions. Islam is totally 
opposed to euthanasia and suicide. The Qur'an says that Allah has created 
all the lives and everything belongs to him. Life is sacred and people are 
forbidden to kill themselves: <Q> <R>. The Prophet Muhammad said that those 
people who committed suicide would go to hell and if you are suffering 
badly because of a disease you should ask Allah for help: <Q> <R>. So a Muslim needs 
therefore to have an optimistic approach to life and not run away from the 
difficulties of life. However, I think that if a patient is critically ill, and 
there is no hope for meaningful recovery, the patient's family should stop  
this suffering because the medical treatment would only prolong the dying 
process. In my view, I do not want my life to be prolonged by the latest 
medical technology because if I am going to die anyway, I prefer to die in 
piece. 

     There are other people of the opinion that euthanasia is a matter of 
personal and individual choice. This idea was developed in the 16th century 
by one of the first major dissenter writers in Europe- Michel de Montaigne.  
He argued that suicide should be considered a matter of personal choice, a 
human right. He said in his book "A defense of legal suicide" (1580) that 
<Q>. I agree with this 
argument because people must have the right to decide- this means that 
everybody should have the right to choose how he or she lives or dies. The 
right to life is asserted in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, so I 
believe that the "right to die" should be permitted. Each person is valuable 
and worthy of respect, has basic rights and freedom and the power to 
choose their own destiny. 
     
     Another view about euthanasia is given by those people that are 
really suffering and want to die. These people are unable to commit suicide  
alone. They need the assistance and help from a physician. But this is 
totally illegal, only in the American state of Oregon and in the Netherlands 
is a legal action. In the rest of the world these people that have a terminal 
illness are forced to continue living against their wish, until their body 


eventually collapses, or until a family member or friend commits a 
criminal act by helping them commit suicide. This is the case of a man in 
Spain, Ramón Sampedro, that after 30 years suffering tetraplegia, wanted 
to end his life. He said that <Q> <R>. I agree with 
this argument because if a person that is suffering wants to die why he or 
she cannot fulfil his or her last desire. I think that society should allow this 
people the choice to die because they have totally lost their independence 
and must be cared for continually. 

	Finally, there are also other views that suggest that euthanasia 
should be permitted because not only the patients suffer, but also the 
families, friends, etc. Many people say that they would rather die than 
suffer in great pain or be trapped in a vegetative state that could make their 
people that surrounds them suffer. A boy from Manchester say that <Q>. Another girl said in relation with her disease mother: <Q> <R>.  I think that nobody in the world is better qualified than these ill people to know when to end their lives. I believe that these decisions of letting die or continuing  with their life, are decisions that need to be made by families and doctors, not by the government. 
       
       
     	To conclude with, in this essay there are a variety of opinions 
in relation with euthanasia. Some views seen it from religious perspectives 
such as the Catholics, Jewish or Muslims that agree on the fact that life is a 
gift from God that cannot be taken by themselves. However, other people 
think that we should be free to do what we want with our bodies, because 
we have the right to decide. As persons we are valuable and we worth our 
respect and our rights. I think that we should listen to our hearts and forget 
about our religious beliefs because we are not dealing with thoughts but 
with individuals that are suffering a great pain. If the society or the justice 
think the opposite, I believe that we are loosing our liberties as individuals, 
because we should have the power to choose our own destiny.

     
 
 
 
 


1

