                                                                                                                                      . 
Ever since the first animal was cloned, back in 1952, investigations have not ceased. 
The most famous animal created was a sheep called Dolly, by Scottish scientists at 
Roslin Institute in 1997 <Q> <R>.  This fact aroused the interest of a 
lot of people and also concern, because of its scientific , ethical and social implications 
since it opens a new path of cloning, specially on the issue of human cloning. The term 
cloning is usually used by scientists to describe different processes for duplicating 
biological material <Q> <R>. There are three types of cloning: recombinant 
DNA technology or DNA cloning, reproductive cloning, and therapeutic cloning. The 
first one is <Q> <R>. The second one is <Q> <R>. Dolly, for example, 
was created by reproductive cloning technology. The last one also called embryo 
cloning, is <Q> <R>. In this essay, I am going 
to focus on therapeutic cloning and I will discuss and give my opinion about pros and 
cons of human cloning from an ethical and social point of view.

In November 2001, scientists from a biotechnology company (Advanced Cell 
Technologies) in the United States of America, let it be known that they had cloned the 
first human embryos with the intention to use it for therapeutic research. Although the 
results  of this first cloning were limited in their success, since the only one of the eight 
eggs used in this process was able to divide into six cells before stopping; which proves 
that it is still necessary to do a lot more research in order to therapeutic research to ever 
become a reality, for future use on the treatment of physical and mental disorders. This 
experiment has helped to bring up several discussions about the aim of the experiments. 
In addition, these aims and their possible social and ethical consequences. One of the 
arguments in favour of human cloning is that people should be free to use it if they 
choose to, since it is, amongst many other uses, a way of reproduction. It is included 
into various artificial reproductive technologies like in vitro fertilization, oocyte 
donation, etc... <R>. Cloning should be permitted because it is another 
kind of reproduction and it is the only way to procreate for some individuals, who 
otherwise cannot reproduce. This argument has been strongly criticized by people 
against this type of reproduction, because it is more a means of manufacturing human 
beings, than of reproduction. From my point of view, I would like to point out that 
although I understand that it can be a way of reproduction and for some people the only 
way to have their natural born child, I  also think that it is a little bit different from other 
means of reproduction since in this case we are talking about cloning a human being. 
Moreover it is also the possibility of adoption  even though people in favor of cloning 
could say that many couples want to have the experience of pregnancy and to have a 
child biologically related to them. In my opinion, I do not think that it is the same a 
biological child than a cloned child. In addition, I believe that if they adopted a child, 
and give the possibility to living child who already exists of having a possible better 
life. At the end, they would love him as if he was his own one. 

Another argument in favor of human cloning is that it could be used to generate tissues 
and organs for transplants <R>. It would solve the problem of finding a 
transplant donor with an acceptable organ or tissue match for the transplant. This would 
also eliminate, or reduce, the risk of transplant rejection by the host. Moreover it would 
enable couples in which there is a risk of transmitting a serious hereditary disease, to 
avoid it. Two reasons against these arguments. Firstly, that sometimes, the medical need 
would be too urgent to wait for the cloning, gestation, and development of the later twin 
necessary before tissues or organs for transplant could be obtained. Secondly, such a 
practice treats the later twin not as a person valued and loved, but simply as a mean for 
benefiting another. In my opinion ,this is very cruel because although the idea of  
generating tissues and organs for transplants and curing diseases is very interesting and 
important I believe that it can not be done at the expense of a human life.

A person in favor of human cloning can also say that it enables individuals to clone 
someone who had a special meaning for them, such a child who had died <R>. And that it would permit the duplication of people of great talent and genius, for 
example Mozart or Einstein. But maybe they do not know that cloning a child or a 
famous person does not replace the child the parents had loved and lost or extraordinary 
individuals like Gandhi, Leonardo DaVinci... Genes do not determine what one will 
become because social facts also determine both the personality and development of a 
person. As many scientists have pointed out, a clone would not in fact be an identical 
copy, but more like a delayed identical twin. Moreover, identical twins <Q> <R>. In my opinion, if you clone your dead child or an 
important person, you would create a new different individual with the same genes. 
Every person is unique, and even if the later cloned child could have not only the same 
genes but also be subjected to the same environment he had in his other life, which of 
course is in fact impossible, It would remain a different individual than the lost child or 
the genius, because he would live a different life altogether <R>. In my opinion, 
parents cloning their lost child might seem to help them accept the loss, but I believe it's 
a fictional relief.
One negative consequences of human cloning is the psychological distresses or harms it 
can cause on the cloned person. Although we do not have experience with human 
cloning, if it became true, it would possibly produces several problems on the twin, not 
only because the great publicity that would attend his creation <R> but also maybe the clone may feel that his fate has already been 
designed, and therefore it is very difficult to build his own life. Another possibility is 
that the twin is a clone of an individual with special capabilities and he may experience 
pressure to reach the very high standards of ability of the earlier twin <R>. For these reasons in my opinion, we also have to think about the clone 
therefore the only way for the twin to avoid harm is never to be cloned or to exist at all.

Another argument against cloning is that it would diminish the value, and our respect 
for human life, because it would lead to people being viewed as replaceable <R>. Although the idea of eternal life is very attractive for many people, 
we all know that life is a cyclic process which is constantly unfolding death, decay and 
renewal. Seeking to eliminate them denies human evolution and what the future might 
bring. Additionally creating a new life without a father and reducing the mother to the 
provider of an almost emptied egg, and destroy it in favour of scientific research, from 
my point of view,this is a barbarity and something inhuman.

One more reason in favor of human cloning is the creation of babies designed to meet 
the physical wishes of the parents, or in other words, choosing what kind of child to 
have ; since genetic testing of an embryo for genetic disease or abnormality, together 
with abortion of an affected embryo, are now used to avoid having a child with that 
disease or abnormality, why not use cloning?. In fact, sperm and eggs from attractive 
and intelligent people are already offered for sale, including on the internet <R>. Cloning would be merely a small extension of this process 
explained above, to ensure that the product meets the costumer's wishes. In the other 
hand, tell us that creating a baby would be a proof of the vanity and selfishness of the 
parents and that it is also against nature. When a couple decide to have a baby, they 
have to think about him, not about themselves. In my opinion creating a clone and, what 
is more, a clone with the characteristic that parents want, it is something crazy, because 
this way we would not be humans but machines.

On the other hand, human cloning and research on human cloning might make possible 
important advances in scientific knowledge, like human development would take 
resources from other more important social and medical needs <R>. I 
strongly believe that it is essential in the struggle against diseases to investigate, but I do 
not think that the best way to carry it out, is human cloning; additionally it is also 
expensive and the results up until today have been rather inefficient.

To conclude, I have talked about pros and cons of human cloning from a social and 
ethical point of view and I have given my opinion. We have seen that people have 
different opinions about cloning, some of them think that it is a good way of 
reproduction and others that it is a way of manufacturing humans. Others that it would 
help to treat diseases, others that the clone is a person, not a way for benefiting another. 
Some people think that it is a possibility to clone a close member of the family who has 
died or an important person. Others that a clone would never be an identical copy. And 
some individuals believe that it would cause psychological problems to clone and others 
believe that in this way parents could create a baby at their lesure. These are some of the 
ideas I have treated in this essay, and I would like to add that due to the inefficiency of 
animal cloning and the lack of understanding about reproductive cloning, I strongly 
think that it would be unethical to attempt to clone humans. Moreover even assuming 
that cloning safety and effectiveness is established with animals, much more research 
would need to be done to establish its safety and effectiveness for humans.








