
Traditionally in the United States of America as in many other countries around the 
world, marriage has been defined as a religious and legal commitment between one 
woman and one man, as well as an expression of love. Homosexual relationships are 
increasingly gaining acceptance in this country; however, theses couples have not been 
permitted to marry. From September 2005 in the United States, only the state of 
Massachusetts recognizes homosexual marriage, while California, Connecticut, the 
District of Columbia, Hawaii, Maine, New Jersey and Vermont grant people in same-
sex unions a similar legal status to those in a civil marriage by domestic partnership, 
civil union or reciprocal beneficiary laws <R>. Moreover, within the U.S., 
California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Vermont, 
Washington state, Wisconsin, and Washington, D.C. allow adoption by openly gay and 
lesbian couples. Florida is the only state that completely prohibits gay adoption. 
Mississippi, Oklahoma, Colorado and Utah all make same-sex adoption virtually 
impossible. Critics of anti-gay adoption policies also point out that in many of the states 
that have bans on gay adoption, gays are still able to act as foster parents <R>. In this essay I am going to discuss about the pros and cons of homosexual 
marriage and child adoption in the US in order to have an overall vision of this issue 
and therefore to understand in a better way the different points of view about it. 
One of the main arguments in favour  homosexual marriage is that denying them is a 
violation of religious freedom because civil and religious marriages are two separate 
institutions. The First Amendment  of the Constitution tell us "a person's religious 
views or lack thereof must be protected". The government cannot make laws just 
because a religion says they should. On the other hand people against these marriages 
argue that most religions consider homosexuality a sin, marriage is the most sacred 
institution in the US and it makes biological sense since only a man and woman can 
pro-create. But it seems to be a bit exaggerated argument since homosexuality has 
exited before many religions (for example Catholic religion) and a lot of studies have 
shown that homosexuality has a biological causation, not a genetic one. Denying these 
marriages is a form of social discrimination.     
Another argument in favour homosexual marriages  is that marriage benefits, such as 
medical decision( for example a critical ill), joint ownership...should be available to all 
couples, not only for heterosexual marriage. Many people could claim that these 
marriages make weak the vision of the traditional family of man, woman, and children 
and that this kind of marriage could start a chain reaction(having multiple wives, to 
marry your brother...) that destroys the whole idea of marriage. But it could be 
considered a radical idea since the only thing that should matter in marriage is love and 
it does not hurt society or anyone in particular, it only involves two people, who form 
the marriage. For this reason it may be logical that homosexual people have the same 
rights than heterosexual marriage.
Another issue regarding homosexual people is adoption, it seems to be an important 
factor for them. Those in favour of allowing gays and lesbians to adopt children point 
out that there are numerous children stuck in foster homes or institutions who are 
currently awaiting adoption. In some areas of the country, foster homes are extremely 
unhealthy places for children to remain in. They are often changed from location so that 
they are never able to put down roots. Opponents often believe that only a marriage of 
one man and one woman provides the type of stable environment that children need to 
develop properly <R> and that <Q> <R>.It could be 
argued that the important thing in these cases is the child, to be a good father or mother 
is not influenced by sexual orientation, it is influenced by the ability of the parents to 
create a good environment at home. There is no evidence to suggest that lesbians and 
gay men are unfit to be parents, or that the children of homosexual people are less 
intelligent, less popular, suffer from more problems, or have lower self-esteem than 
children of heterosexual parents. They can grow up as happy and healthy as the children 
of heterosexual parents.
Research suggests that as other adults in this country, the majority of lesbians and gay 
men have stable relationships. Of course some of these relationships have problems, as 
do some heterosexual relationships. The adoption process is very rigorous, including 
extensive home visits and interviews of prospective parents. It is designed to screen out 
those individuals who are not qualified to adopt or be foster parents, for whatever 
reason. All of the evidence shows that lesbians and gay men can and do make good 
parents. The American Psychological Association, in a recent report reviewing the 
research, observed that <Q>. Gays and lesbians seeking to adopt should be evaluated just like other 
adoptive applicants. On the other hand some people believe that there are studies which 
indicate that children in homosexual households are four times more likely to identify as 
homosexual or get involved in homosexual behaviour than children raised in single-
parent households <R>. But it is probably wrong since 
there are several scientific studies that demonstrate there is not relationship between the 
sexual orientation of the parents and the sexual orientation of the children, it is not 
something genetic. And it may be possible that it would be better in the cases of death 
of one of the parents, to be two parents of the same sex than only one.

Some people against homosexual adoption argue that there is a connection  between 
homosexuality and pedophilia. On the other hand people in favour of homosexual 
adoption tell us that there is not a connection between them. Sexual orientation 
(homosexual or heterosexual) is an adult sexual attraction to others. And pedophilia is 
an adult sexual attraction to children. Therefore it seems reasonable to argue that there 
is not a connection between homosexuality and pedophilia since there are a lot of 
studies that indicate ninety percent of child abuse is committed by heterosexual men.

In summary in this essay we have observed the different points of view that have 
different people about the same issue, in this case, homosexual marriage and child 
adoption. They have different opinions about what a marriage is, some of them see the 
homosexual marriage as a sin, others think that they are discriminated, religious 
marriage is a different institution from civil marriage. In addition, they have different 
opinions about what a family is and about adoption related to what is the best for the 
child, sexual orientation and pedophilia. Considering all these points, we can say that it 
is a complicated subject, it could have a solution long-term, it would necessary obtain a 
good education in schools, high schools and universities, in order to understand that 
gays and lesbians are normal people, they have the same rights that us and therefore 
they have the right to adopt as well since they could be good parents too, sexual 
orientation is not important, the important thing is that children receive a good 
education and love.





