  
In our present society violence is out of control, we can see it everywhere, in films, 
music, the streets, newspapers, media image etc... and guns are the main cause. There 
are about 220 million of guns in United States of America, approximately 34% of 
American youth live in homes with at least one firearm, and in almost 70% of these 
homes, more than one gun is present <R>. Moreover about 11.127 
people die each year in United States of America, victims of firearms <R>, of those 1.400 are children. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my 
opinion it is crazy, guns should be banned as soon as is possible, because nobody has 
the right to kill another person, all we have the right to the life, the solution to the 
problems are not the arms, we are human beings, has the capacity to reason, to think, to 
speak, killing to somebody turns to us animals.

I strongly think that violence is a public health problem and United States of America is 
the most violent society of all of the industrialized countries. First of all gunfire have 
surpassed automobile accidents as the leading cause of traumatic death in the U.S. 
furthermore U.S. teenagers die from gunshot wounds than from all natural causes 
combined. Secondly it is very easy in Unite States of America the acquisition of guns, 
and this fact increases the suicide attempts, since firearms are involved in 65% of 
suicides among persons under the age of 25 <R>, this mean that suicides among 
children have been rising. And in general terms between 1968 and 1994 deaths by guns 
are increased by more than 60% <R>. Thirdly The United States is the main 
producer and world-wide exporter.  The proliferation of guns into the hands of citizens 
increases the possibilities that in any human confrontation use the arms.  It explains, for 
example, that a young American has twelve times more possibilities of dying to shots 
than any European young person.
Also for every death involving firearms, twice as many persons with firearm-related 
injuries need hospitalization and five times as many need outpatient care; physicians are 
directly affected by firearm injuries. In a recent survey 87.7% reported that they 
personally had treated or knew someone who had been injured in a gun accident 
<R>. Of course one can reply that guns are essential  in United 
States because they have a different culture and different rules, the rationale heard most 
often among supporters of gun ownership is that the Second Amendment gives the 
individual a right to own a weapon. These people believe in strict interpretation of the 
Constitution. In my opinion this is absurd, they do not have the same country they did in 
1787 and in the present day in many ways their Constitution do not make sense as the 
society is not the same. Almost no countries allow firearms for personal use, and none 
of them surpass the number of deaths by firearms in U.S. The problem of guns in Unite 
States should be treated as public health problem as drugs, poverty, alcoholism...it 
cannot play with the life of an individual.
In addition to I believe that the frequent use and illegal of the arms it is not more than 
the symptom and the expression of other problems of bottom, of more structural 
character. Firstly the problem is not only the one of a supply and an easy access of arms 
of illicit origin, but the existence of social and political circumstances (social 
fragmentation, exclusion of youth, unemployment, social and political polarization, 
etc.), that generates a demand of violence instruments and confrontation. Secondly 
Unite States has a weak judicial systems, there is a lot of corruption into the corpses of 
national security and into the Government. And thirdly the culture of violence that 
glorifies the use of the guns, is the result of the confluence of diverse factors, as the 
mystic of the created masculinity from the glorification of the force, the repression of 
the feelings and the scorn by the empathy, the care and the tenderness; the little capacity 
to value the meaning of the life and the loss of the same one, the stupid association 
between bravery and risk of death, the identification between power and violence, etc. A 
person that thinks that the guns should not be banned could say that to disarm the 
citizens would be impossible in the Unite Stated, because they are a different culture 
from for example Europe, they have a tradition of independence, and individual self-
defense; in the U.S no one would pay attention to a law of this type, they would gladly 
break the law to defend their families, their homes, their lives. Moreover it is impossible 
to enforce a gun ban due to there are an estimated 700,000 to 3 million unregistered 
firearms and if 1% of illegal gun owners were caught, tried and sent to prison for a year, 
the state prison system would collapse. But this is a conformist attitude, guns can be 
banned in U.S, what must be changed are the bottom problems ( social and political as 
we have seen before), to detect, to recognize and to act on these roots that generate 
violence and facilitate the resource to the arms will be, therefore, the most effective 
form to change this dynamic. 
Additionally in my opinion, children do not have to grow with guns around them. To 
begin with kids like to play and to be active.  Youth is curious and impulsive.  Such 
healthful characteristics, when they are combined with guns, can cause the death. The 
best way to protect to the children against the violence of the firearms is removing them 
all from the house.  If there are firearms in the house, it is always going to have dangers. 
Secondly children often imitate what they see and they become more aggressive after 
seeing much violence in the television, the cinema, and/or violent games in the 
computer. And thirdly in U.S  it is important to know the friends and their parents of 
your children, in order to know in which surrounding are going to grow, as in a study of 
accidental discharges hurting smaller children of 16 years one was that 40% of the 
firings happened in houses of friends or relatives(2001). The risk in children increases 
under the effects of the alcohol and drugs and in children with emotional problems and 
of behaviour. It is true that one can say that the problem is not the guns but the person, 
<Q> and that with a good education the problem 
can be resolved. But I don't believe in an education with guns through.
In conclusion guns must be banned, because as we have seen nobody has the right to 
kill people, it is a serious social problem and it has to be resolved, it is the symptom of a 
deep social and political problem in U.S. and it is awful that children have to grow with 
guns in their homes. I believe that guns can be banned in Unite States for personal use, 
but it is necessary a change of mind, for this purpose it is essential social and political 
changes and mainly a good education based on saying not to the guns.




