
	Prostitution is the oldest profession in the world. It exists since many years ago and, in Spain 
and in other countries such as, for instance,  Sweden , it is considered illegal, due to the fact that it 
could be defined as the use of a woman's body for sex by a man, he pays money and he does what 
he wants. Nevertheless, prostitution has always been a topic on which governments have been 
arguing to be or not to be legalised. I want to mention that, if I do not specify, I am going to talk 
about the "normal" prostitution, the "poor" prostitution, not the luxurious one. In this essay, I 
intend to give reasons for, in my opinion, not legalising prostitution, although it is a very complex 
topic to talk about and it is difficult to draw the line between the aspects for legalising it or the 
aspects or characteristics for not to do it.  

To begin with the reasons, <Q>. This fact has been seen in Netherlands, where prostitution is legal. Apart from the women, 
clients and pimps, we have to include the businessmen, who are called "sexual entrepreneurs". 
However, many people think that prostitutes should have the same rights as any other worker, but I 
think that, in this way, they would not have them, due to the fact that the sexual industry, as everyone 
knows, is not as any other job, it is much harder and more painful than the others.

	To continue, <Q> <R>., so it means that they have increased. Is it worth? Would 
anybody think that this "system" could be taken as an example to legalise prostitution in other 
countries?

	Another reason for not legalising prostitution is that, <Q> <R>. However, there are women that, in the same article, say that prostitution <Q> Nevertheless, prostitution is 
an abuse of a woman's body and women are treated as objects and not as a human being.

	On the other hand, I want to say that prostitution comes from male dominance and not from 
female nature, as we are in a society that is still dominated by men, although this fact is hard to 
assume and it should have not been said anymore. Prostitution establishes the lowest social bottom 
in our society. Prostituted women are all on the bottom and all men are above it, even the men who 
are also prostituted. Every man in this society benefits from the fact that women are prostituted 
whether or not every man uses a woman in prostitution. It is a political reality that exists because 
one group of people (the pimps) has the power of another group of people (prostitutes). From my 
point of view, male domination is cruel and it must be destroyed as soon as possible because they 
look for homeless women, poor women....with whom they can have a big and great job, <Q>

	Consequently, <Q>. In a five-country study on sex trafficking done by the Coalition Against Trafficking in 
Women and funded by the Ford Foundation, most of the one hundred and forty-six women 
interviewed strongly stated that <Q>. <Q>.  Not  one woman interviewed wanted her children, family or friends to have to earn 
money by entering the sex industry. One stated: <Q>.

	Apart from the "poor" prostitution, we can find the "luxurious" one, what it means that men 
pay much more money to do whatever they want with women. The difference between both is very 
big due to the fact that, on the one hand,  a "normal" prostitute can be paid from thirty to fifty euro 
(more or less) for her job and, on the other hand, a "luxurious" prostitute can be paid from six 
thousand euro to ten thousand euro or more, for her job. I would like to mention that these are, 
normally, rich women that prostitute themselves because they want or also, because they love 
making sex with men. However, few of these women are also obliged to do their job, so it means 
that not all the "luxurious" prostitutes do this job because they want, but this is a minority, most of 
them enjoy themselves doing it so most of them do not want to legalise prostitution since they are 
earning lots of money with what they are doing.

	Another good point to discuss is that many prostitutes do not want to have another 
profession, such as cleaner in a house or building, or babysitter because they earn much less 
money than if they prostitute themselves. This could be also because, in my view, they do not want 
to work hard and then, earn little money. However, many women need money quickly in order to 
solve a problem or to send it to their countries so, the best and easiest way to have a lot of money 
quickly is to be a prostitute. Nevertheless, they should try to work in other things unless they were 
paid less money. There is no point to argue that these women do not want prostitution to be 
legalised due to the fact that if this happened, they would not earn as much money as they are 
earning now.

	To sum-up, prostitution should not be legalised, since we have seen that many problems 
would appear, such as businessmen trying to get a profit of the situation and having the legal 
possibility to take advantage of prostitutes in their businesses. From my point of view, as I said 
before, prostitution is a profession in which men do whatever they want with women, what means 
that they pay for women's body. Finally, I want to mention that the problem of prostitution is that 
it is a <Q> <R>. since we are still living in a 
male dominance society, so, in my view, this is the point that should be solved before discussing 
about legalising prostitution. If this problem with society does not change, the system of 
prostitution will neither change. 

