							

      In our present society anorexia is considered one of the mayor problems among teenagers 
who are not happy with their bodies or who are not self confidents themselves. Most of them are 
girls, although this mental disease can also be found in boys and young women. It seems that 
anorexia started 3 centuries ago, but it has been more popular when companies and magazines 
used thin girls for most of their commercials. This obsessive dieting behaviour reflects today's 
society pressure to be thin, which is seen in advertising over and over everyday. Also athletes, 
actors, and models suffer from eating disorders because for them thinness has become a 
professional requirement. Someone who suffers anorexia most of the time begin losing weight 
because they go on a diet and when this one is over, they still feel they have to loss weight 
because they found themselves fat. Anorexia is not only a psychological disorder in which you 
become obsessive with your body shape and your appearance, but it can also cause health 
problems as anemia, dental problems, dry skin or dull and brittle hair. Anorexia can be caused by 
biological, psychological or environmental. In this essay I am going to talk about different causes 
of anorexia depending on the environment that this illness occurs and I will try to give some 
possible solutions for this problem in nowadays.

      One of the main reasons why anorexia is so typical among young girls it is because they 
do not feel comfortable enough with their bodies and they are not self confident themselves 
.When a girl does not have a great body, if she is self confident it does not matter her external 
appearance, because not everybody should look as thin as the models on tv or magazines do, 
because the most important thing is that each person should like herself/himself the way they are. 
<Q> <R>. One of the possible solutions for this problem could 
be working with the girls in how to like themselves more without worring much about their bodies, 
family and friends should enrole them in things that they enjoy doing or where they can feel 
important, useful and appreciated. This way they can beging to rely on themselves and they will 
eventually see their bodies as the main thing to worry about. When girls suffer anorexia they are 
very perfectionist and they spend lot of time in their studies. <Q> <R>.  These girls are very smart 
but this is a psychological problem that when starts to get serious, family and friends can not help 
them. In this case, I think that the people who care about them have to encourage the patients to 
go to the doctor and ask for help, otherwise the problem will become worst. Unfortunately 
sometimes all the publicity it is not enough to make people realize about the consequences of this 
illness, but if when we grow up we could find more information and they teach more values of how 
to like yourself more, that will avoid lot of people falling into this problem. Books about self steem 
and knowing a person better could also be a good solutions to solve the problem.

      An other reason why anorexia appears in people lives it is because of the familiar 
enviroment. <Q> <R>. I think that these 
girls/boys feel the necessity of satisfy their parents way of living. Some parents do not teach their 
children about important values, as friendship or love, and they are just worried about 
appearances and what people would say if you are not a "model child". This behaviour affects 
directly to the psychology of their minds and if the teenagers are not mature enough it can have a 
big repercussion in their behaviours. This teenagers need to have something to spend their time 
at where they can feel they are doing something right, as it would be controlling their own eating 
habits or working out as much as they can. When they do this, they feel fulfilled and they seem to 
have control over something in their lives even though it seems something insignificant but it is 
because they do not seem to be capable to have control over mayor things specially related with 
what the future will bring: A patient diagnosed with anorexia said: <Q> <R>. They 
can not realize about all the things they are missing because they are obsess with their bodies 
and what will be the next thing they will eat. Parents are obviously a very important role inside 
families, and personally speaking I think that because of their roles, they should value their kids 
integrity and worry less about what people say in their social contexts. A solution for this problem 
should be that parents need to listen more to their kids and make them feel comfortable the way 
they are. Sometimes, people who suffer anorexia just want to call attention on people, because 
they do not feel important or cared of. Parents sometimes spend lot of time working and they 
hardly have time to spend with their kids and find out what is going on in their lives. An other 
solution according to Abigail Natenshon would be <Q> <R>.

      The society also takes a very important part when we are dealing with anorexia. Skinny 
models, pretty actor/actress are the dream that many teenagers want to become. Because of this, 
they start losing weight and they think that being thin will make them feel better. But not only the 
people who follow these actors are the one who starts to have eating disorder problems, but the 
same actors and models  <Q> <R>. Famous 
people can also feel under pressure because of their jobs and responsibilities they have. <Q> <R>. It also seems to me that famous people as everybody they have to be able to deal 
with positives and negatives expectations, and when these expectations are not reached, they 
can get depressed and as I said before, they need to feel they can have control over something, 
and in many cases is the problem of food. As we can see money sometimes does not give us all 
that we want, so a possible solution for this will be again, being happy with the person that you 
are and being able to overcome problems with help from friends, also going to a psychology that 
can help you to control the eating disorders when the problem is becoming worst  And there are 
also specialist, that deal with nutritional counselling treatments that can help you design healthy 
meals to keep control over what you eat, individual coaching to find healthy ways of controlling 
your life, besides just worried about what to eat  and systemic coaching to manage your 
relationships and emotions which is a very important part to be able to overcome the whole 
mental problem.
       
      
      
      In this essay I have tried to show different causes that bring up anorexia nervosa 
problems. It does not matter how old the people are or the social class that they belong to. This 
eating disorder can affect to all kind of subjects and it has the same repercussion in all of them. 
Sometimes anorexia can be caused by the environment that the person is in, and because of 
social, familiar or low self esteem, he/she can fall in this psychological disease. Some solutions 
given are to love themselves more, and find out things to do that make them happy and that they 
can feel fulfilled doing. More information since we grow up should be teach at school, and also the 
parents roles being part of their children everyday life. Friends should also encourage the 
anorexic to go to a doctor or to centres where they have special programs for them. Nowadays 
anorexia is the cause for lot of uncontrolled deaths for the lack of help during the illness, but if 
people start liking themselves for who they are and not because of how they look like, this illness 
eventually will start to decrease.
      




















