        			
        
        Nowadays, the sentence "slavery among children" does not sound very familiar to us because our 
society should be more concern about it, but usually we think about it as something it has been already 
extinguished. It is something that remind us to our past times when there was traffic among slaves in the old 
world. In our days exploitation of children it is a big problem in which we should take action. This crime is 
taking place mainly in undeveloped countries such South Africa, Eastern Europe and also Asia, when the 
exploitation concerns of overtime work at factories or child-labour and the implication of children in warfare, 
we look at these countries, but there is also sexual exploitation and besides the countries named before we 
can found it in develop countries such Europe or America. These are problems that we are not enough aware 
of and are happening everyday. Children are the main target of the traffickers because they do not what their 
rights are and because they are much easier to deal with, they will not say no to most of the things they tell 
them to do, because they are very young to know what is right or wrong. All these forced works will have a big 
repercussion in their future, they will be hurt physically and psychologically and these children will not be able 
to grow up and develop as the rest of other kids with rights and a regular way of living. In these essay I will 
deal with different kind of children's exploitation within our world and how we should try to solve these 
problems as citizens of developed countries. 

	Children taken as slaves is something that happen constantly in South Africa, even though the 
government is against these trade among children there are lot of corruptions and in countries like Gabon, 
Nigeria and Togo this practise is increasing. Most of the time the kids are sold for commercial works and they 
work overtime in the plantations of cocoa or coffee. Salia Kante, director of Save the Children in Mali said that 
<Q>. This 
declaration is really shocking but it is real truth and we should think seriously about it because these people is 
playing with the children's lives taking away their freedom because even though they are human beings they 
do not have the same rights that any other children in the world. In African markets the traffickers make 
money out of the exploitation of the children and even though sometimes they must invest money in them 
when they have to place them with their new owners or in new places, they know that later they can exploit 
them to recover all the money they have spent on them. Children are forced to work more than the 8 legal 
hours a day either in farms or plantations, with the minimal wage and usually seven days a week, sometimes 
their employers abuse sexually of them and tortured them psychical. Sometimes the children that live with a 
new family do not receive any money because it goes to the person who has sold them. Some organizations 
as Global March Against Child Labor is helping to solve this problem concerning the African issue of slavery 
but it is also from my point of view, a problem that we all should be aware of and think more about it everyday 
and try to help these organizations although sometimes the problem is the denial of people to believe about it. 
300
        
        In the other hand if we look at the problem from the citizens'point of view we know  Africa is a poor 
country and most of the work take place in plantations because they are not many services that create jobs 
for their citizens and they are not aware of the different possibilities they could have if their country was a little 
bit more developed, this might be one of the reasons why the parents of the children sometimes are very 
naïve and allow the traffickers to take their children, they promise them education and a better life if they work  
for a wealthy family. This happens in poor rural areas and families are needed to find jobs to survive 
everyday, so they are opened to any job offer even though they have to sacrifice their children's lives without 
having notice of it thinking that they will be able to find a better way of living with more opportunities for their 
futures. Sometimes kids leave their houses because of the extreme poverty they have to deal with and they 
believe they would be able to survive in the streets, although at the end most of them end up as slaves or 
sexual exploited.
        
        Sexual exploitation within children it is also a big problem in Africa, as is many parts of the world, but 
in Africa, girls are highly prized by rich families in states as Lagos or Nigeria. Girls are kidnapped and forced 
to use drugs to become prostitutes even though they are very young. There are organized gangs that traffic 
with the young children to be exploited, sometimes the child prostitution is necessarily for the families as an 
economic way of survival, as families are extremely poor they allow their children being exploited this way.
        
        Child Abuse is a major problem in this country and some organizations are helping us to be aware 
about this issue, UNICEF has a commercial about this topic that says: <Q>, meaning that poverty is the 
main reason why still exists the abuse among young children in undeveloped countries. Slavery is prohibited 
in article 15 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and trafficking with children is illegal and that is 
what we all have to take into account. 
        
        Afghanistan is also a country where child abuse takes place and besides sexual and labor 
exploitation, in this country children are forced to become part of the warfare since they are very young. This 
is also a crime that should be punish from my point of view because children have rights that should be 
respect and the use of a gun since they are very young means to take away the child's freedom of enjoying 
life as any other kid in the world. Very often we see children carrying fire guns or riffles in order to fight for 
their country which give us goosebumps because it is something hard to believe if we think about how the 
world has developed in the last decades. Children are meant to be playing with toys and with their friends and 
also they have the right of going to school to learn about the world and be able to get manners and have a 
good future. <Q> <R>. Again, poverty and the lack of culture is the 
reason of exploitation in a country as Afghanistan, where people is constantly living a war. For us is hard to 
believe because we do not experience it so closely, so we can not understand why they behave that way. 
Nevertheless for them is a way of survival and living, they are used to fight for those few things they own and 
since they are very young they train their children to be ready in case of war or fights with people who has 
different religious believes. In their culture war is something they have to face almost everyday and the 
illiteracy of most of the citizens do not give the chance to most of the kids to be able to attend to school, also 
because they do not have many schools and in areas where they have them, their parents prefer to teach 
them how to deal with everyday life and not how to read or how to add because it will not be very useful for 
their futures. Instead of the creation of new school, they use their money to built military summer camps were 
the kids are "educated" in warfare, combat and Nationalism.
According to some resources in internet , confirmed by the New York times on August 3, 2000 in a 
front page article, Arafat himself had designated resources for training of at least 25,000 children for use in 
guerrilla warfare. Most of countries of middle East also use children as the target of exploitation due to the 
continues war they live in their countries. It is said that the use of children in terrorist warfare has two self 
serving purposes: 1. trying to incite international public support for the Palestinian cause by using their deaths 
as an example of Israel being merciless and irresponsible and for psychologically terrorizing the Israeli 
people by holding them responsible for Palestinian children's 
death.As I said before the problem of the different believes in these countries it is also a reason that have
repercussion in children's lives, They have to suffer the problem 
of war because of the religious ideas that their parents and government have established. In the other hand 
sometimes children support war too, because they are thought how to fight for their families and their 
countries and they do not have the knowledge of anything else but warfare and they get so much into it that 
they know it is a revolution they have to win in order to save their country and their people. I believe unless 
we all become more aware of this problem that affect children so directly and start taking some action about 
the problem injustices like this will be happening near to the XXII century which will be something really sad 
for our society. 
As we have been seen the abuse of children is a big crime that still happen nowadays, besides 
sexual abuse, exploitation in plantations and children belonging to armies, we also find an other kind of 
exploitation that happens in big factories most of the time in Asia. Children are exploited working overtime 
with the minimal wages . Children in Asia are used in different types of work: farming, making leather goods, 
stone-cutting, mining, toy making, textiles, construction, dumpsites. The problem is accentuated by western 
multinational companies setting up Asian branch plants in many manufacturing sectors, especially textile. 
Children have no many opportunities, so they have to agree with what the owners of the factories force them 
to do. Sometimes they have to work over 12 hours and they do not get good food to keep going through the 
day. The conditions are miserable and illegal.besides the kids get ill and unhealthy because of this 
treatments. An other reason why this crime still exists in our society besides the reason of poverty it is 
because attend to school is very expensive in some of this countries and not every family can afford it. 
Children working in factories is the only escape for some families who are willing to survive, while the 
employers are making lot of money out of this exploitations, because they also know kids do not cause as 
much problems as adults and they are very young to know their rights.
In the other hand, according to Mitesh Badiwala, <R>, the study found that a child's income accounted for between 34 and 37 
percent of the total household income. This study concludes that a child labourer's income is important to the 
livelihood of a poor family. This percentage is very high when we talk about a child's job. From my point of 
view, the government should establish new laws against these abuses to children, but sometimes even 
though the parents are aware of the problem they do not try to avoid it because for them is a way of survival 
as the cases named before. 
In conclusion, I have tried to talk about the different types of exploitation that concern to children in so 
many parts of the world, poverty is the main reason for this cause but there are some other factors involved 
as survival, religious believes or the illiteracy within the undeveloped countries. I think that children 
exploitation is a problem bigger than what we think and all of us should become more involved, although we 
know there are so many organizations that are already working in this problem, sometimes we deny it 
because we do not believe just in giving money to an organization, because in our society there have been lot 
of cases that have  been a fraud. Sometimes even though we have good intentions there are solutions out of 
our reach, because it only depends in the governments of these countries, and unless they do not start 
changing the laws and making it more strict, we will have to see these horrible crimes in the media and we will 
only be able to complain without having the opportunity of doing anything else.
        
        
        
        


         
