         
         Nowadays sexual education at schools is a very controversial issue. There are different points of 
view concerning on how to deal with these education programs within schools. Religious and public schools 
will show a different point of view too. Years ago, talking about this subject been consider as part of a 
school program was a taboo  one. In our present society these programs have been started to be consider 
one of the main solution to avoid unintended pregnancy and many sexual diseases as HIV and STD.
Sexual education programs have been successful in a different setting as community centres or youth 
groups. Also the involvement of the parents in this new solution programs is very important too for the 
support of their children, because sometimes they might not feel comfortable when they have to deal with 
someone they do not trust much in a topic like this one. Also the teenagers are willing to know what could 
happen if something goes wrong, the consequences in sexual intercourse and about contraceptions.Most 
parents agree on these programs as necessary ones, in order to help their kids to deal with sexual 
behaviours as having safe sex, self-steem or decision making skills. On the other hand, we have the church 
's point of view which only consider abstinence as the only program to be taught about teenagers in high 
schools, because they consider sex is something that only can happen after marriage. It could also be 
consider the Government' s point of view as an important one in the support of sex Education in schools. 
Britain has the highest teenage pregnancy rate in Western Europe. In this essay, I will discuss different 
points of view concerning with sex Education taking place in schools.

	The most important ones to be considered are the children or teenagers, because these programs 
are design for them. <Q> says Dr. Cynthia Waszak, an FHI senior scientist who focuses on adolescent 
health. This is one of the main reasons why parents support these programs, they know that the 
development of their children is as important as other process they go trough. Also  On the other hand, it 
seems that some parents who have some religious believes, think that these programs only focus on the 
talking about sex which can be a negative effect for their kids. It is apparently true that some public schools 
force potentially harmful, sometimes shockingly explicit sex education on their students  <Q>  Sometimes 
the teacher who is in charge of the lesson must have the right training. Teachers have to be comfortable 
with the content of the curriculum and make it interesting for students.  Instead, researches agree that most 
educators have in common  the importance of curricula helping youth to develop and practice decision-
making skills. <Q> says Hally Mahler, a trainer at FHI who has facilitated 
sessions on sex education for teachers. Also <Q>.
	It should also be considered the Government 's point of view about the subject. In Britain, for 
example, during 1998, 65 conception per thousand women aged between 15 and 19 took place. 
<R>
 The Government agree with different associations that the main reason of these pregnancies is due to the 
lack of information about contraception. During primary schools kids are taught how to conceived a baby 
but after that, when students reach high school this subject is hardly mention. The Government discuss Sex 
education as something obligatory, because they know what can happen when there are not enough 
information, and it thinks every teenager should know about it.  They offer <Q>, that try to teach teens how to avoid pregnancy or diseases. These programs are appropriated to 
different ages, starting from primary school, teaching children beginning with improper touching, in later 
ages dealing with contraception, responsibilities and consequences. <Q> 
says Francis of the National Children's Bureau. Sex education is compulsory in secondary school, but 
parents have the right to withdraw their children from lessons. Conservatives parties and families values 
campaigners also argue that the information giving in these programs it is not the appropriate one. It could 
be argued that for these parties, sex education should not be taught at school. They support sex education 
as something that has to be taught inside the families and not as a public subject. <Q> <R>.
	The last point of view is the one given by the church. According to their view point, advocates of the 
abstinence-only movement, traces its roots to efforts in the late 1960s to ban any form of sex education in 
schools. It seems that these sex education programs were being described by the Christian Crusade and 
other conservative groups as "smut" and "raw sex." According to Phyllis Schlafly a leader of the far-right 
Eagle Forum. The church does not accept people having sex before the marriage. The church proposes an 
abstinence-only program that focus on morality and in the consequences of premarital sex; they are 
presented in schools as health curricula. But.others link sex before marriage as an  emotional illness.  Their 
goal is scared the teens in order to remind virgin until the marriage. In order to make this problem more 
positive, they included lessons about self steem or decision -making skills. They argue that sexual 
education will result in the increase on sexual activity among teenagers. It can be argue that other entities 
also agree with abstinence to avoid the unintended pregnancies or the sexual diseases, but in this case it 
would be because the teenager would not have protection at the moment that they decide to have sex.  An 
effective message according to Dr. Douglas Kirby, an analyst for ETR Associates, would be: <Q>. Abstinence is the best way - if you have sex, always use a condom.". It can also be 
considered a mid point argument of the American Public Health Association where: <Q>. In any case for people who have religious believes and agree with church 's a middle point can not 
be considered because they think as reproduction as something special that only can happen after being 
accepted by God. An abstinence-until-marriage curriculum assumes that all students want to be part 
of a mixed-gender marriage, and teaches that they should abstain from sexual activity until then. 
<R>.
	To conclude we have found different points of view that express different ideas about the problem 
of sex education at school. Most of the parents agree with the Government and teachers arguing that the 
solution for most of sexual diseases and pregnancies would be to teach the kids since they are in an early 
age how to deal with these subjects. On the contrary the church , conservatives parties and some religious 
families do not agree with the teaching of this topic in school, because it might increase the teen sexual 
activity and because the programs that the schools would teach would just focus on how to have sex and 
not in how prevent it. There was also an argument where both sides agreed with abstinence as a solution, 
while the church proposes it as something that can not happen in premarital life and will also avoid the risk 
of sexual diseases, parents, teacher and doctors, think that should be necessary if they are not ready or 
they do not have protection, otherwise because of the education received at school they would be able to 
prevent the diseases in most cases and unwanted pregnancies.	
















=
