      The gender debate can be thought of as one of those recurrent seesaw issues 
which invariably arouses strong feelings whenever it comes to light. The classical deep-
rooted model of patriarchal society, still prevailing in current cultural codes, is being 
seriously questioned nowadays by the new power dynamics which stem from the 
incorporation of  women into the public sphere. As a result of such a collision, many 
people are in two minds about this state of affairs: whereas one section tends to envision 
patriarchy as an old-fashioned sacred cow already in its death throes, other less 
optimistic group  continues to denounce females' degrading conditions as second-class 
citizens. Working on the generally agreed principle that not a single country in the 
world enjoys a social situation of full gender equality (that is, a context where both men 
and women may exert the same rights), more and more anthropologists, psychologists 
and even politics are trying to figure out the reasons for this democratic blunder to  
occur still at this stage of history. In this essay, I intend to set out several approaches to 
the issue of gender discrimination, complementing them with a more personal critique.
      
	To begin with, a far from negligible number of people, not only consisting of 
men, is set on emphasizing the fact that women at present are on an equal footing with 
men in all the essential social areas. In comparative terms, today's adult females are said 
to be light-years ahead of their mothers: since the reforming seventies, when both the 
Sex Discrimination and Equal Pay Acts came into effect in the United Kingdom as a 
precedent to be mirrored by the rest of Western countries, women's participation in the 
labour market and the social institutions has increased dramatically. They are supposed 
to get equal wages by law, maternity leaves are a statutory right, they have free access 
to higher education, the army and the police force (typically male-restricted sectors), 
and they may have a more effective command of their fertility and sexual independence 
with new contraceptive methods <R>. Marriage  is not seen as an imposed 
survival technique anymore, and <Q> <R>.

      Moreover, as the Spanish journalist Gabriela Cañas points out in a recent article, 
women are definitely making their way through the male dominated world of politics. It 
might be significant enough to notice that Angela Merkel is <Q> <R>.  According to her, the political panorama has evolved a great deal since 
Margaret Thatcher was <Q> <R>. There are more women occupying seats in Parliaments and Congresses all over the 
world than ever before, so it could be deduced that women are now in a more secure 
position to fight against possible gender injustices and to guarantee equal opportunity 
policies.
      
      Nevertheless, although I concede that important steps have been taken in the last 
thirty years, I tend to believe that women are still the victims of a well-established 
patriarchal pattern of thought, where the whole social hierarchy revolves around the 
authoritative figure of men placed at the very top of the pyramidal structure. Firstly, I 
am of the opinion that, even in those developed countries with a solid egalitarian 
tradition such as Sweden,  women get less paid than men while performing exactly the 
same task during the same amount of hours. As the gender expert Jennie Bristow put it, 
<Q> <R>. We just have to take a brief look at the statistics which prove the British Equal 
Pay Act  to be a flawed law: in 2002, women only pocketed an average of 80 cents per 
male-earned dollar <R>. In addition, I feel that women keep on being 
excluded from a majority of power positions, whether in business (there are very few 
women directors on the companies' boards), education (most professors are men), or 
politics, where female parlamentarians only get to represent a global 16% <R>.
      
      Secondly, as I see it, in order to maintain that twenty-first century women have 
achieved at last an equal status with regard to men, we should adopt a wider perspective 
which may also include the other half of women who daily struggles in the developing 
territories of Africa and Asia. What strikes me the most is that, frequently, the same 
<Q> <R>.  
      
      Female genital mutilation known as "clitoridectomy" is a notorious practice in 
twenty-eight African countries, oppressive tribal customs which force widows to <Q> <R>, or 
crimes such as the Indian <Q> <R>  are irrationally overlooked by the international 
community. Women cannot negotiate for sex in their married life, nor use contraceptive 
methods since men think the latter <Q> <R>. In the 
end, we come across countries of the type of Nigeria, whose constitution <Q> <R>., but where the violence 
against women is highly tolerated and even promoted within the internal cultural 
framework. Personally speaking, I would argue that, so long as society carries on its 
shoulders the embarrassing weigh of these plights, it is impossible to talk about gender 
equality.
      
      One of the fundamental aspects to understand the actual subordination of women 
is the usual distribution of different gender roles to each sex. Some Bible-believing 
Christians claim that men and women are equal yet different. The so-called 
"complementarians" shield themselves behind God's will to assert that the creator 
<Q> <R>. 
      
      In the same line, some darwinian anthropologists suggest an updated variation 
on the  deterministic theory to defend that <Q> <R>. According to these 
assumptions, male and female brains have evolved separately to perform different 
functions, and this should be translated into a specialised labour market in modern 
capitalist systems: the business man standing for the equivalent of the hunter-caveman 
of pre-historic times.
      
      As far as I am concerned, none of the previous arguments is valid to account for 
or minimally legitimize the subjection of women to men's authority, nor do they justify 
that men may be entitled to shape female's lives by drawing boundaries to their acess to 
some specific jobs, or through the imposition of certain absurd cultural behaviours 
which directly snatch women's basic rights away. For my part, I simply cannot see the 
point in accepting God's commandments in case of agnosticism. At any rate, in my 
view, no literal interpretation of the scriptures should be recommended, since a religion 
which casts into oblivion that Adam's mouthful of apple was as sinful as Eve's, may not 
be worth our time. 
      
      Likewise, although I might acknowledge that male and female brain 
architectures are different to some extent, I strongly disagree on the male chauvinist 
dychotomy which brands those possible specific female qualities as inferior or less 
desirable than males' characteristic attributes. As the darwinian anthropologist Helen 
Fisher  asserts, society equally needs the holistic, more intuitive mental flexibility of 
women, and the more task-oriented, goal-seeking capacity of men <R>. I do 
think this way of looking at the matter is far more logical and fair, in the sense that it 
does not confine one of the two roles to an obligatory and artificial submission, as the 
sheer darwinism presented above appears to imply: both sets of qualities working 
together are more liable to result in success than just one of them acting on its own. In 
my opinion, gender roles are the product of arbitrary social conventions rather than pre-
determined biological impulses. After all, none but we dress up male newborns in blue 
and girls in pink.
      
      To sum up, in this paper I have tried to show the basic arguments hold when the 
issue of gender equality is discussed. On the one hand, those who claim that nowadays 
there is no remarkable evidence of gender discrimination mention the attainments 
carried out by the feminists of the 70s, overall the improvements that have been made in 
the financial sector. On the other hand, I have critiqued these argumentation by 
highlighting the situation of women in other developing countries, where they suffer 
from a flagrant oppression in the form of cultural practices. Finally, the problem of 
gender roles has been presented from various perspectives, allowing me to come to the 
conclusion that they are mainly socially determined concepts. All things considered, I 
would say that we are still far from the utopy of balanced gender split. We should make 
an effort to dismantle, not only the formal barriers, but also the cultural ones.  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      





















