       
The ever present gun issue has always generated a 
great deal of heated debate in our times. Often defined as 
the scourge of modern developed societies, the actual 
proliferation of firearms among civil population is not 
regarded as a secondary matter or as biased political 
propaganda anymore. Facts speak for themselves: more than 
30,000 Americans died from gunshot wounds in 2002. Despite 
these shivering figures, "the land of the proud and the 
brave" continues to be divided between those in favour of a 
complete ban on weapons and radical detractors of any 
possible gun control measure adopted by the state. Seeing 
that there are over 220 million guns living with nowadays' 
Americans, this paper intends to show the necessity of 
developing a realistic mid-position which, in my view, will 
help to reduce the crime rates with the enforcement of a 
tough gun legislation.  
To begin with, it seems to me that the usual 
interpretation of the Second Amendment made out by gun 
sympathizers is clearly distorted and devoid of its 
original historical context. This specific section from the 
Constitution of the United States makes explicit reference 
to the right Americans have to possess and use arms:
<Q>.
In this way, the National Rifle Association (NRA) has 
traditionally identified the purchase of a gun with the 
exercise of an inalienable right, and therefore, it has 
seen the demands of gun control movements as a serious 
violation of the individual's freedom to use any kind of 
firearm. Actually, this tremendously powerful lobbying 
group, with up to 4 million paying members and the 
unconditional support of the Republican Party in Capitol 
Hill, was founded to <Q>, as Wayne Lapierre, NRA Executive Vice 
President, proudly states <R>.
Counting on the legal assistance offered by the 
Institute for Legislative Action (ILA), all NRA-affiliated 
associations can act as a unified force, and so leave the 
way open for holding sway over politicians. Their main 
efforts are aimed at getting to pass pre-emption bills that 
may prevent attacks on gun owner rights.
Moreover, a considerable number of NRA followers are 
still persuaded that the Second Amendment also protects 
them from would-be tyrants and possible political 
oppressors, as if they remained trapped in the 
Revolutionary context which witnessed the birth of the 1776 
Constitution. Professor John Lott, a Texan pro-gun convert 
and author of different crime studies, keeps on quoting 
Thomas Jefferson's ideology against laws opposed to 
carrying weapons two hundred years after his death <R>.
Although NRA and ILA have ravelled a thick mythology 
around the Second Amendment (ignoring that the "militia" 
which appears in the constitutional text does not function 
as a synonym with the populace at large), I personally find 
it difficult to believe that the Founding Fathers could 
have envisioned the current situation of uncontrolled gun 
violence that we are undergoing at present. As I see it, we 
would need to reformulate the gun control issue so that it 
is less about the Second Amendment and more about the need 
to reduce gun violence <R>.
What is more, according to the fifty prominent 
American academies, between historians and law professors, 
who five years ago sent an open letter to Charlton Heston, 
president of the NRA, the Second Amendment <Q> <R>. I totally agree with their view. 
The overrated importance conferred to the Second 
Amendment can be easily understood if we take into account 
what has recently become America's national obsession, that 
is, security and self-defence. Overall after the 9/11 
terrorist attacks, Americans have looked for protection in 
the shape of guns. This phenomenon has caused the gun sales 
to increase by 70%, and the ammunition sales have gone up 
by 140% for the same motives <R>. In my view, more guns into circulation can only mean 
more gunshot wounds being produced, and thus, keeping 
handguns off the streets is to diminish the eventual number 
of armed assaults. It is rather a simple syllogism to 
understand that the only way to avoid shooting a gun is not 
having one. However, in a predictable extension of its 
characteristic individualism, American society holds the 
firm conviction that if they want to be safe, they have to 
defend themselves on their own. They arm themselves so as 
to better protect their persons, families, homes and 
communities from "roving criminal predators". The NRA has 
put into practice this smear campaign against the police, 
claiming that <Q> <R>. Once this presumption 
has been assumed, the possession of weapons is conceived of 
as  an inevitable requisite for the essential preservation 
of safety and liberty.
Furthermore, unlike other self-defence devices such as 
chemical sprays or stun guns, pro-gun activists think 
firearms have additional advantages: <Q> <R>. Equally, criminals are <Q>. 
Another recurrent argument against the acceptation of 
even partial gun control asserts that disarming law-abiding  
citizens would just put us at the mercy of well-armed 
criminals, who are able in any case to purchase massive 
quantities of weapons in the black market <R>. As firearm expert J. Neil Schulman points out, every 
thirteen seconds an American gun owner uses his arm in 
self-defence. Consequently, he says that restrictive gun 
measures would only result in the same amount of crimes but  
with more honest people being killed.  
Nevertheless, statistics prove Schulman wrong. The 
Bureau of Justice confirms that a majority of gun owners 
are never involved in self-defence situations, but rather 
in crimes of passion. The trigger is normally pulled to put 
an end to an argument with boyfriends, ex-espouses or 
lovers <R>. 
After considering all these facts, it appears to me that a 
cuckolded husband could be more potentially dangerous than 
a common robber. As for the crime rate, just mentioning 
that the six states with the highest levels of gun 
ownership had homicide rates three times higher than those 
with the lowest levels <R>. For my part, the 
relation between gun possession and violence is obvious.
I am strongly of the opinion that, in order to 
palliate this chaotic state of affairs where hundreds of 
people are daily hold up at gunpoint and children at school 
practice routine "gun drills" -dropping to the ground and 
staying under their desks <R> -, the 
legislation should be directly targeted at the core of the 
problem: the gun industry. Since gun industry manufactures 
and markets the only widely available consumer product 
exclusively designed to kill, I would argue that it is 
logical to demand a higher degree of responsibility on its 
side. 
On the contrary, in October 20, Congress passed a bill 
which grants gun dealers and makers protection from crime-
victim liability lawsuits, a privilege none other business 
has <R>. If we bear in 
mind that guns are also exempted from the jurisdiction of 
the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), we can set 
out that toasters or teddy bears are more subject to safety 
standards or governing restrictions than guns.
On top of that, the Second Amendment Sisters justify 
all these political favouritism by saying that the gun 
industry is one of the most reliable pillars of American 
economy: it is both a gigantic source of income and work 
<R>. Although I acknowledge 
this may be a somehow solid argument, I personally believe 
that gun industry could innovate for safer handguns (with 
"childproofing triggers", load indicators and personalised 
locks), and stop making others: bullets capable of going 
through police shooting vests are definitely not used to 
hunt deer.  
To sum up, this essay has shown the most frequent 
arguments held by those against gun control (carrying guns 
is a constitutional right, guns are necessary self-defence 
tools and gun industry supports the national economy), with 
the aim of proving that steps can be taken to harmonize 
American gun tradition with a more strict legislation. 
Legal gun control has demonstrated to reduce crime rates in 
the last analysis. As a result, we should develop a control 
policy starting from a thorough reform of the gun industry. 
I do feel there are realistic ways of approaching the 
issue; at least, more things could be done to reduce the 
number of weapons in the street and so mitigate gun-related 
violence.  
 
 
 
 


2

