       In this day and age, it may appear to us that nothing else could be said about 
such a hackneyed topic as abortion is. The absolutist arguments held both by pro-life 
sections (those who conceive of this practice as a crime tantamount to murder) and pro-
choice groups (who raise abortion to the level of an essential individual right) will 
probably sound rather trite and even repetitive to the average citizen. Overall in recent 
times, television sophistry and other mass media have specialised in exploiting the most 
sensationalist side of this bone of contention, conveniently reducing the complexity of 
the matter to a simplistic war of extremes. However, social reality presents us with a 
rich tapestry of nuances and subtle distinctions aimed at developing a somewhat solid 
middle-ground, an intermediate path amid all these shouting voices of totalitarian 
detractors and defenders. In this essay, I will try to set out the main different standpoints 
which emerge when the issue of abortion is discussed. 

       Typically, the handiest array of arguments used as the battering ram to push 
abortionists over is handled by the Catholic Church. Pope John Paul II, who continues 
to be quoted by Christian pro-lifers all around the world even after his death, bluntly 
asserted in his speeches and encyclicals that <Q> <R>.

       A flourishing amount of religious organizations, overall in the United States, 
follows this leitmotiv. By way of example, Probe Ministries, a non-profit corporation 
standing as a real faith bastion in the opposition to abortion, is in charge of providing 
biblical arguments to back John Paul's thesis. Although they concede that the Bible 
does not allude explicitly to abortion, they do not think it necessary for <Q> <R>. In addition to this, some more 
permissive Christians state that modern contraceptive methods <Q> <R>.
       
       Despite their being very widespread in Western civilizations, these points 
anchored in the one-way perspective of Christian religious faith do not speak for the 
whole collective of pro-lifers. They might be branded as weak or unconvincing by those 
who simply do not share the belief on the existence of a God-type creator figure, or they 
alternatively may prefer to interpret the holy scriptures in a more direct manner without 
the intercession of the church. As for the last argument, it does not seem very logical, 
nor realistic enough, since <Q> <R>. Thus, the actual situation of a pregnant woman who does not 
want to give birth remains unsolved. It could be even argued that many of the radical 
actions of pro-lifers, such as <Q> <R>, are carried out by religious fundamentalists 
who overstep the mark.    
       
       Leaving aside this violent and non-representative minority of pro-life terrorists, 
who are chained to a blind destructive dynamic leading nowhere, a considerable number 
of people want abortion to be criminalised through legal procedures. Kerby Anderson, 
lecturer at Yale University and editor of a national conservative publication in the 
States, brings up this subject in his studies on marriage, family and sexuality. Anderson 
shields his reasoning against the premature termination of pregnancy from a Christian 
bias by applying to the theoretical assumptions of secular governments. He dismisses 
abortion as a punishable alternative on the basis that it contradicts the most basic 
constitutional premise ruling in democratic societies  which <Q> <R>. What is more, <Q> <R>.
 
	Other similar authorities dare even further in their public condemnation of 
abortion when comparing it to involuntary euthanasia. This is the case of Peter Kreeft, 
who teaches in Boston College as the visible head of the Advisory Board of the Catholic 
Educator's Center. As Kreeft understands it, abortion means <Q> <R>, that is, a perfect synonym with murder. In this way, he 
thoroughly believes that the regulation of abortion will bring about a social collapse and 
a consequent legal ambiguity, leaving the door open for infanticide or eugenics 
experiments to eliminate those groups who have traditionally been stripped of their 
rights, such as blacks, Jews or slaves <R>.

       At first sight, these arguments may easily appeal to a majority of people: they 
make a special effort to detach themselves from possibly restrictive religious dogma, 
pointing directly to a universal and deep-rooted policy of egalitarianism which rests on 
the identical distribution of rights among human beings. However, they also hint at 
some notorious weaknesses. Firstly, it could be said that the denial of abortion is as well 
a coercive measure which attacks freedom of choice (another basic democratic right), 
and intends to set limits to women's sexual independence in a patriarchal code. 
Secondly, some abortionists would argue that legal rights are given to individuals 
because they are wholly considered to be human persons with a minimum of rational 
capacity, a feature that a foetus might be lacking in. 	

	Actually, different criteria (cultural, moral and scientific) are still being applied 
to find out when human life exactly begins; to put it in other words, the moment during 
gestation when the foetus does acquire <Q> <R>. 
On the one hand, Christian doctrines claim that the process of "ensoulment" takes place 
at the very moment of conception, when <Q> <R>. On the other hand, medical pundits have grosso modo  tackled the 
apprehension of human personhood suggesting that <Q> <R>. If we work on the 
principle that <Q> <R>, foetuses 
cannot be regarded as entirely human creatures, capable of suffering and conscious 
activity, before their brains have fully developed -that is, over the fourth month.

	In contrast to the "ensoulment" theory, this last viewpoint is pretty persuasive, 
given that it is based on empirical data and objective research which can be proved. 
However, seeing that these investigations have not reached a total consensus among the 
scientific community yet, pro-lifers maintain that, in these cases, it should prevail the 
maxim <Q> <R>. 


	Apart from the classical confrontations between pro-lifers and pro-choicers, 
there are more and more people who are distancing themselves from this extremely 
polarized panorama. Several religious associations have pronounced themselves in 
favour of reproductive choice, such as American Baptist Churches and the Presbyterian 
Church  in the States. Together with other liberal Judeo-Christian groups, they admit 
abortion under some isolated circumstances: only at the embryo stage (early-term 
abortions), when the mother's life is at stake, should the woman be raped or the child be 
the product of an incestuous relationship, in cases where the foetus <Q> <R>. Nevertheless, these sections may be reluctant to support abortion for personal 
reasons related to financial resources or professional aspects (a child who may interfere 
with the career or education of the woman.) 

       Other mid-positions have attempted at establishing a balance between the rights 
of the unborn child and the rights of the mother, between the <Q> <R>. The legal case known as "Roe Vs Wade" permited 
abortion in the United States only within the first three months of pregnancy, <Q> <R>.          

	All middle-points may appear at least commendable, as they try to face an 
existing social reality with a more open attitude. Overall, the last one seems to make 
more sense, because it marks out logical boundaries with regard to scientifically 
accepted conclusions.

	
       To sum up, in this paper I have tried to show the fundamental opinions 
concerning the practice of abortion. Those against, mainly gathered around religious 
convictions, emphasize both the moral and legal challenge which abortion implies 
(killing a would-be human being.) On the contrary, those defending abortion feel that it 
is an individual right which does not suppose any harm to the foetus, since the latter is 
not a sensitive rational human being yet. At any rate, it should be taken into account that 
abortion will keep on being part of our social scene and, consequently, governments 
will have to arrange a mid-solution so as to prevent women dying from risky backstreet 
abortions. 
       
       
       
       
       
       

