

While judges and juries debate on which sentence to give, they also think about which sense, 
which function this sentence aims 
at having. Which intention lies behind punishment? And what is the real power of a sentence?
Contemporary political philosophers present three main theories of justifying punishment: the 
retributive approach, the utilitarian approach, and the one that aims at rehabilitating 
individuals into society. 
In this essay, after reviewing the basic principles of all three theories, I will try to explain why 
when some experts judge by either one of these three theories, I personally tend to believe 
that each one of them is to be considered depending on the nature of the crime but that I am 
still clearly a supporter of the rehabilitative theory.
   To begin with, I would like to analyze the retributive theory of justifying punishment. 
Following this approach, the criminal should receive a punishment that equals the harm he 
did. In many cases, it is mostly retaliatory and vengeance-oriented. Hence, I believe that it 
would be too simple and show a lack sensibility and intelligence to judge by this theory only. 
Applying this theory to all crimes would be inappropriate because morale and sometimes 
religious beliefs overcome the notion of justice. Indeed, we cannot reproach a criminal with 
what he did and give him a sentence that equals the gravity of his crime. In my opinion it 
generally proves ineffective because it doesn't educate the criminal. The retributive 
conception is mostly that of the United States and more generally that of the countries which 
still apply capital punishment. Death penalty is the perfect example of retribution. "You killed 
someone; you deserve to be killed in return. You deserve to suffer as much as you harmed 
your victim." I can totally understand that a person whose family member got killed wants the 
criminal to die in return in the sense that I would feel the same rage and pain. But this is not 
our role to revenge society or our family. This would turn the world into chaos. Apart from the 
extreme case of capital punishment, I am rather in favor of punishing strongly someone who 
committed a crime. But the sentence needs to be education-oriented and meaningful. In 
addition, one must not forget that we are all potential criminals. For instance, we could all be 
led to kill someone in a case of self-defense. That is scary to say but in a particular context, it 
happens that mentally balanced people lose their minds. Though most people in favor of a 
retributive sentence search for a balance between the crime and the sentence, I don't think 
raping a rapist would be a solution for instance. However, I don't believe either that criminals 
are victims. They deserve to be punished, but in an effective way.
    As a second theory, we find the utilitarian approach. Two authors are particularly known 
on this theory. First, Cesare Beccaria, a classical theorist, who argues that punishment 
should increase the total amount of happiness in the world by reforming the criminal. The 
method of punishment chosen ought to be which serves the most people good. The goal of 
punishment is thus to create a better society, not to breed anger and revenge. It is useful in 
its power to deter others from committing crimes and to prevent the criminal from repeating 
his. Secondly, Jeremy Bentham, who wrote on the principle of utility and described it as an 
approval of an action as long as an action had an overall tendency to promote the greatest 
amount of happiness. I agree with the utilitarian theory because I do believe that many of us 
are deterred from committing crimes because we are afraid of sanctions. When a sentence 
acts as a deterrent it is much more powerful and much more efficient than when it acts as a 
punishment because it prevents future crimes. We usually tend to think twice before acting 
illegally. This applies to minor crimes like illegal music downloading for instance or stealing in 
a shop but also to serious crimes like killing someone we hate. I believe that prison and huge 
fines, but also shame and rejection are major deterrents to most people likely to commit 
crimes. As a matter of fact, nobody seeks punishment, and when there is a risk of being 
sentenced to pay high damages, or spend half of our lives in prison, we will all think twice 
about what criminal act we have in mind. However, it is obvious that many of us still illegally 
download music or movies on the Internet for example but this is because only a few people 
got caught so far. In addition, the utility theory is linked to the criminological theory of rational 
choice which appears to have been gaining popularity in the recent years. This rational 
choice theory is based on the belief that crimes are committed on freewill. I agree that most 
of the time crimes are premeditated. But not always; so this should not be taken for granted. 
A major problem is that of delinquents who keep repeating the same crimes over and over. 
In that case, the utilitarian approach doesn't serve. The problem lies somewhere else, it 
arises from the social and/or psychological backgrounds of the young criminal. Sometimes 
jail sentence doesn't even deter these young people from committing crimes, sometimes this 
is a way for them to prove they are real men, to show they are tough. They become criminals 
because they rebel against a society that rejects them. In that case, I argue that they should 
be punished and sentenced according to another theory, based on formation and education.
       Finally, the third theory agrees on a method of punishment that aims at rehabilitating a 
criminal into society. To my mind, this is the most rational way to punish somebody. This 
raises many questions, especially on the efficiency of imprisonment. How does prison affect 
its inmates? Or rather, how should it affect them? This theory tends to look for alternatives to 
prison because in most cases, a long sentence in prison doesn't bring positive changing in a 
prisoner's life. Recidivists are the hardest to educate, but they are also the ones who need 
most education and formation. Most of the time, they have lacked family or social models, 
they grew up in a frameless world, and feel left out from the society. This is why I believe that 
all the efforts made to reform prison and bring educators, teachers, psychologist and all other 
forms of aid, is the best way to bring back those criminals into society. They need models 
and, above all, they need to set their own goals and to give a meaning to their lives so as to 
be determined and willing to go straight. If they feel that they have no future whatever they 
do, they will consider prison as another way to reject them, and that is a vicious circle. Of 
course they need to be punished and understand the gravity of their crimes, but the most 
important is to learn not to be willing to commit crimes again. Many don't believe in the power 
of this theory because they cannot accept the notion of an "educative sentence" or 
"educative prison" because prison has always been the worst place to go. They argue that if 
prisons become a great place to live in, then what would be the point of fearing prison 
sentence? Again, I don't think that any of us would chose prison instead of freedom. At least, 
prison will have been effective, and inmates will have learnt something when they get out. 
The Council of Europe is taking measures or "legal instruments" to reform our prisons and 
find alternatives to prison. Among them are prison leave, education in prison, improving 
health care in prison, prison labor, best recruitment and training of prison staff, and after-care 
of conditionally released offenders. I am strongly in favor of their implementation and am 
confident in their efficiency.
As a conclusion, we have seen that three main theories can justify punishment. Some can 
believe in the retributive approach which praises retaliation and vengeance, and think that a 
sentence is merely to punish. Others will argue that utility should be the aim that judges 
pursue, and that the main objective of a sentence is to deter people from committing crimes 
so as to increase the total amount of happiness in society. And finally, those, like me, who 
are more in favor of an educative sentence, and who believe that managing to rehabilitate 
offenders and criminals into society is the best solution to create a better society.
