
      The climate of the Earth is in constant change. In the past it has altered as a result of natural causes. Nowadays, however, the term climate change is generally used when referring to changes in our climate which have been identified since the early part of the 1900's. The changes we've seen over recent years and those which are predicted over the next 80 years are thought to be mainly the consequence of human behaviour rather than an answer to natural changes in the atmosphere. Many people think that climate change is one of the greatest threats facing the planet. Rising temperatures are the origin of droughts, floods, storms and are causing sea levels to rise. Climate change is mainly caused by our dependence on fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas that we use to run our cars, our power industry and our homes. When burned, these fossil fuels emit heat-trapping greenhouse gases, which are causing the earth's temperature to rise. This phenomenon is usually known as global warming. These energy resources used by human activity, specially the burning of fossil fuels, has made the layer of greenhouse gases around the earth "thicker." The resulting increase in global temperatures is altering the complex web of systems that allow life to thrive on earth, such as cloud cover, rainfall, wind patterns, ocean currents, and the distribution of plant and animal species. The greenhouse effect is a very important item when talking of climate change as it relates to the gases which keep the Earth warm. It is the extra greenhouse gases which humans have released which are thought to pose the strongest threat. The greenhouse effect is produced when more of the sun's energy is being trapped in the atmosphere, and much more of the world's carbon (in the form of carbon dioxide) is resting in the air rather than in trees, soil, and subterranean deposits. Over a decade ago, most countries joined an international treaty -- the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) -- to begin to consider what could be done to reduce global warming and to cope with whatever temperature increases were inevitable. Recently, a number of nations have approved an addition to the treaty, called the Kyoto Protocol, which has more powerful (and legally binding) measures. The protocol shares the Convention's objective, principles and institutions, but also has the task of committing the parties to individual, legally-binding targets to limit or reduce their emissions. Since the appearance of the Kyoto Protocol in December 1997, the debate for ratification among the negotiating countries has been ongoing, for the simple fact that policy has many advantages along with a reasonable amount of disadvantages. In this essay, I present several points of view regarding the importance of the global warming, stating my opinion and my conclusions.

      Most mainstream scientists believe that human activity has contributed to a significant increase in the average surface temperature of the planet. However, there is still a sizeable group of researches who dissent from this statement; they question much of the science which underpins the global warming hypothesis. This last group does not find reliable the temperature data registration methods used; in fact, one of the subjects that arise more controversial in the scientific community is related to the different methods of recording temperature. Generally, data from weather stations on land and at sea level have been used to reconstruct the variations on Earth's annual-mean surface temperature over the past century. This sector of opinion states that since much of the data comes from weather stations close to towns and cities, this warming figures may simply reflect the heat associated with them; they also doubt whether much or any of the warming can be linked to increases in CO2 <R>. Furthermore, to confirm their hypothesis, sceptics emphasize the inconsistencies between the surface temperature records and the data produced by satellite and balloon studies. The latter show little, if any, warming in the last two decades of the low to mid troposphere (the atmospheric layer extending up to about 8 km from Earth's surface.). They state that climate generally predicts that temperatures should rise in the upper air as well as at the surface if increased concentrations of greenhouse gases are causing the warming recorded at ground level <R>. 
      
      Contrasting the opinions in the previous paragraph, the UNFCCC's report states that the average temperature of the Earth's surface has risen by 0.6º C since the late 1800s and it is expected to increase by another 1.4º to 5.8ºC by the year 2100, which is a very fast and profound change. The principal reason given in this report for this mounting thermometer is a century and a half of industrialization, which implies activities such as: The burning of ever greater quantities of oil, gasoline and coal, the cutting of forests and the practice of certain farming methods. These activities have increased the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, especially carbon dioxide. Such gases occur naturally and without them the world would be a cold and barren place; but in augmented and increasing quantities they are pushing the global temperature to artificially high levels and are altering the climate. The 1990s appear to have been the warmest decade of the last Millennium and 1998 the warmest year. <R>. On the other hand, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which is a group of experts formed in 1988, stated that greenhouse gases are acting as a blanket around the earth, trapping the heat and keeping the Earth warmer than it would be otherwise; industrialization activities are making the blanket thicker since the natural levels of these gases are being supplemented.
      
      In the previous paragraphs I have presented two views of the same data and there is something that surprises me regarding this subject. Even though both sides agree with the raise of the temperatures, they do not agree with the causes, the methods or with the forecasts. In my opinion, the important aspect is not how we got the data, but the data itself. We use the tools and the technology we have nowadays; and if the result is that the Earth's surface temperature is higher, we should focus on the effects this may have in our planet and our lives and stop arguing about the data gathering methods. In my opinion, I would say to the sceptics that maybe they should make their own tests to see if they get a different result to contrast what UNFCCCC presented in the Convention.

      Another aspect criticised by sceptics are the scenarios of future climate change that are produced by computer models; they say they are deeply flawed and they believe the task of simulating the complexities of our climate system is beyond the capabilities of even the fastest supercomputers. Certain phenomena, such as cloud formation, oceanic heat transport and the mixing of the air, are still so poorly understood that certain assumptions have to be made about the way the atmosphere behaves.  In my opinion this point of view is somehow tricky. On the one hand, the followers "believe" in computer models when they offer what they want to see, I mean that if the result is good for them they consider the method valid.  You don't need sophisticated computer programs to see the evidences of the climate change; you only need to look to old photographs of the glaciers and compare them with the size of the same glacier today. Almost all mountains glaciers in non-polar regions retreated during the 20th century, and in Switzerland, the overall volume of glaciers in Switzerland decreased by two-thirds. In an interview with CBC Radio's Quirks and Quarks, University of Victoria Arctic researcher Terry Prowse said: <Q> <R>.

      As a conclusion, it seems clear to me that climate change is one of the biggest problems we have to face nowadays but, in my opinion, we still have time to stop this process. The industrialized civilization has brought many remarkable advantages to us, that make our everyday lives easier; things as automobiles, airplanes, etc. which belong to the culture of modern day industrialized countries, and that have provided us with great benefits compared to the type of lives our ancestors used to live. In the eyes of some, the consequences of industrial activities that have evolved around the world will not pose any problems in the future, since they don't see the relation between the Global Warming and the human activity; however, apparently this is not completely true. It is a fact that our contemporary production processes use fossil fuels which release dangerous amounts of greenhouse gases into our atmosphere. In addition, certain products such as vehicles are notorious for their inefficient combustion cycles; moreover, emissions from agricultural practices, land use change and forestry, and other industrial activities have led to dramatic increases in atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane and other gases since pre-industrial times. Deliberately, I have not mentioned in this essay another climate change side effects regarding extra-strength weather, with hurricanes such as Rita or Katrina, extreme severe draughts caused by the desertification of land due to the deforestation process, extinction of species, vector-borne diseases related to high temperatures which, under my point of view should be a priority in this item and in the agenda of the politics who rule the World. 
      
      But I want to have a positive attitude towards our future and the future of next generations, thinking that a solution to climate change is possible; even though it may not be easy. By switching to clean forms of energy such as wind, wave and solar energy, that reduce the emissions, we can prevent the worst effects of climate change. We can also use more efficient lighting and appliances in public buildings and in our homes. We should ask our politics to take the political measures needed in order to force the industry sector to move to a more efficient and clean production process. We should also expand our forests to stop the desertification process that has already started. Scientific Community is also working on another energy resource: Hydrogen batteries. The hydrogen is obtained from water through an electrolysis process. Some automobile marks, as General Motors, for example, have already a prototype of a car using these kinds of batteries... We may be facing an energy revolution, since this new resource is very easy and cheap to obtain and the hydrogen researches have presented it as a very democratic and environment friendly energy.  All these could be our first steps in the right direction.






