       Corporal punishment: Deliberate infliction of pain intended as correction 
or punishment. Opinions on corporal punishment of children are varied. Whilst 
the practice is accepted and embraced in many countries, it is also illegal in a 
number of others. There is pressure in some countries, including United 
Kingdom, to have any form of corporal punishment of children made illegal and 
treated as child abuse. In this essay I will express my point of view, which is 
that a light slap sometimes proves itself as a useful "tool" in the process of 
upbringing a child.
       The early history of corporal punishment is unclear, but the practice was 
present in classical civilisations, being used in Greece, Rome, Egypt and Israel; 
used for both, judicial and educational discipline. This method continued into 
Medieval Europe, encouraged by attitudes of the medieval church towards the 
human body, with flagellation being a common means of encouraging self-
disciplina. From the sixteenth century onwards, new trends were seen in 
corporal punishment; judicial punishments were increasingly made into public 
spectacles, with public beatings of criminals intended as a deterrent to others.  
During the eighteenth century the use of corporal punishment was criticised by 
philosophers and reformers, which thought that inflicting pain on miscreants 
was inefficient and did not change their behaviour. They believed that the 
purpose of punishment was reformation. As a consequence of this way of 
thinking there was a diminution of corporal punishment throughout the 
nineteenth and twentieth centuries in Europe and North America.
    History is learnt in order not to commit the past errors. In my opinion, there 
is not a recipe to educate a chid, but doubtlessly the process has several 
ingredients, at least:
-	Love.
-	Communication abilities.
-	Great doses of patience (compulsory).
-	Time.
    In my opinion, a slap does not substitute communication or persuasion, but 
it can be seen as a loud knocking. It is important that children know that there 
are certain limits that cannot be trespassed because if so, the relationships may 
break, including those with the ones that love them best.
    In the modern world corporal punishment remains a common way of 
disciplining children. Although this has been outlawed in some European 
countries, most legal systems defend the right to the parent to discipline their 
child however they see, distinguishing between reasonable punishment and 
abuse; and in my opinion again, it is better than psychological punishment.
    Opponents argue that any form of violence is by definition abusive. They 
consider corporal punishment as a relic of barbaric past, usually associated with 
dictatorships, police states and fundamental regimes. They defend that corporal 
punishment causes the destruction of trust bonds between parents and 
children; that children subjected to corporal punishment may grow resentful, 
shy, insecure or violent. Some researches have shown that corporal punishment 
actually works against its objective (generally obedience) since children will not 
voluntarily obey an adult they do not trust.
    Proponents of the corporal punishment of children accept that excessive 
physical punishment amounts to child abuse, but this is not the case. The 
common sense is the limit, corporal punishment, properly administered can be 
a good and effective form of discipline for unruly children, and sometimes 
necessary. Without recourse to milder forms of physical punishment, parents 
may use forms of emotional violence that are actually more abusive. 
    When the indignation of the first moment is over, any sane child can 
understand the difference between exasperated parents up to their patience's 
limits, but immediately ready to forgive and to caress; and those inclined to 
violence due to vice or inability to use different methods.    
    Opponents argue that the use of physical punishment is directly related to 
the lack of educative and communicative resources of the parents and teachers, 
and it is also related with the internalization of violence, and also with the 
adults's frustration when they are facing situations that are not prepared to 
solve. Under their point of view parents should not abuse of their position of 
power. If parents get prepared to practice a profession, why do not get the 
proper preparation or skills for bringing up their children?
    
In 1998, in the United Kingdom, the National Children's Bureau and  Save the 
Children UK association conducted a unique exercise in order to hear the 
children's voices in regards of smacking. The two organisations wanted to be 
sure that the children could talk freely and openly about smacking and that 
they would not be influenced by adult's views on the subject.  That is why it 
was decided that children were told they were the experts on smacking, and 
that the organisations were seeking their views alone.
    They carried out 16 small groups with 76 five to seven year-olds in six 
schools and two summer play schemes. Each of the school groups were divided 
according to age, so that five, six and seven year-olds were questioned 
separately.
    The children were asked to create a story book with a central character, 
called Splodge, who did not know much about our world. To help Splodge to 
understand smacking, a series of questions were put to the groups of children. 
    This consultation exercise produced ten major messages:
1.	Children defined smacking as hitting, most of them described a smack 
as hard of very hard hit.
2.	Children said smacking hurts.
3.	The children that were listened to said children are the main people 
who dislike smacking followed by parents, friends and grandparents.
4.	The vast majority of the children who took part thought smacking was 
wrong.
5.	The children said children respond negatively to being smacked, and 
adults regret smacking.
6.	They said parents and other grown ups are the people that mostly 
smack children.
7.	Children said they usually get smacked indoors and on the bottom, 
arm or head
8.	The children said the main reasons children are smacked include: 
They have been violent themselves, they have been naughty or 
mischievous, they have broken or spoiled things or because they have 
disobeyed or failed to listen to their parents.
9.	They said children do not smack adults because they are scared they 
will be hit again.
10.	Half the children involved in the consultation exercise said they will 
not smack children when they are adults.

    There is another aspect: Time which in our society is not very common, in 
fact is as treasure. Parents, in order to give their offspring "all they need", 
usually work an average of 10 hours out of home, both of them. The result is 
that they see their children very little, and during the time they spent together, 
parent may miseducate their children by spoiling them. The children become 
exigent and intolerant, when the parents try to put them back on the track is 
too late.



