
	In the United States of America, which is known as the place of freedom 
and opportunities, censorship and concealed information go hand in hand. As its 
lexicon implies: <Q> <R>. But I would like to go a step further, to 
the censorship in the information superhighway, that is the Internet, a way of 
communication which is supposed to be freer and unruled. Although censorship 
occurs in the whole world and at almost all levels, until we can reach to know, it is 
especially remarkable in the United States. This country is not a communist one, 
where information coming from outside borders must be deleted, as it happens in 
China. United States is supposed to be where you get the opportunity to make real 
your dreams, as it has been sold to us since the pilgrimage to the New World. And 
also, United States has the great power to rule the world, at least this seems to be 
its intention. So, why does censorship contrast in the so called American freedom? 
And, why is this noticed, almost always, by people from outside the USA? In this 
essay, I will provide some piece of information about censorship in the net in the 
United States which involves as well the media, and I will give my viewpoint about 
this, focusing on the contrast which seems to be between the liberty and the 
morality in this country.

	To begin with, since recent years the Internet has become an excellent 
shuttle to interchange information all over the world. Having an access to surf the 
Internet is now quite common in many countries, as in the United States. There is 
no legislation about the issue which covers the Internet wide range, that is the 
world. So every country has the power, but not the right for me, to decide whether 
the contents  -every content-  in the Internet is suitable for their citizens, or 
whether the accessibility to the contents depends on the people. In the USA there 
are some organizations in favour of censoring the Internet. And beyond, some of 
them are favouring that the Government has the right to ban information from the 
Internet. Some people argue that one of the key arguments in favour of censorship 
is to protect the children from obscene or violent content. And I agree with this 
heavy argument, but only in its general aim. I personally believe that the protection 
of the infants is something that adults have the duty to do. Parents should control 
the contents to which their children have access. In fact, there are several different 
programs available to help parents filter out material that is often considered 
inappropriate for children. I consider that these devices may help, but they in no 
way replace careful monitoring by parents. As DeWolf points out <Q> <R>.
But it seems to me that if the Government censors the contents of the Internet 
under its criteria, it is affecting the right of those adults who are applying their own 
criteria. The Government of the United States of America passed "The 
Communications Decency Act" (CDA) in 1996 which states: <Q> <R>.

	From my viewpoint this has a huge flaw: when it refers to "community 
standards". What are those standards? In America there are a lot of people who 
come from every point of the world, a lot of ethnics, and a lot of ways of thinking. 
So I think it is very vague to say "standard", because it could not be the same 
standard for a shepherd in Nebraska, than the standard for a fashion designer in 
Florida. I mean, they are going to decide the better they can, what it is appropriate 
to their children according to their viewpoints and morals. I have to add that this 
precept has been declared unconstitutional, but quickly new rules have replaced it. 
These new rules are known as CDA2 because <Q> <R>. Some people could say that is OK, the USA Government is not 
prohibiting the access to every content which could be damaging to the childhood 
without their parents' decision, only puts a restriction on speech on commercial ads 
in the Internet, but is it not restrictive to the right of the companies? I think that 
companies that want to sell their products not destined to children, should use their 
imagination as far as they want. From my personal criteria, if the items are 
destined to adults, adults can decide by themselves, and if the commercial results 
so offensive to them, they are able to decide not to see the ad, and not to buy the 
product. In fact, they can ignore it. I think that if a product advertised on the web 
doesn't work, the company would not waste time in it and would change the 
marketing. But even there is censorship not only in commercials, but also in radio 
programs transmitted as well through the net. <Q> <R>.

	I believe that those who "protect" the ears and the eyes of the Americans 
in so restrictive manners, come from powerful organizations or are under protection 
of the Government because their performing is completely admitted and seems 
immovable. If I put myself to think well, I could believe that the Government acts 
in that way to avoid people to hear bad expressions or to see violence, to maintain 
a certain order in their lives. But putting myself to think in a more realistic way, I 
believe that the USA Government is manipulating people to maintain an order in 
their lives by trying to wash their brains.

	A less subtle example of censoring information by the Government of the 
United States occurred related to the Iraq war and recent activities of anti-
globalization movements. In October 2004 the USA Government shut down nearly 
twenty antiwar and anti-globalization web sites in an unprecedented exercise of 
police power against political dissent on the Internet. The "World Socialist Web 
Site" denounced the attack on the Indymedia sites, where the sites were hosted, 
and demanded a halt to all such attempts at suppressing political criticism of the 
USA Government <R>. The shutdown was carried out 
by Rackspace, a US-based web-hosting company with offices in San Antonio, Texas, 
in response to an order from the FBI requiring it. Although most of the sites were 
restored to service by the end of the same weekend of the removal, they had lost 
significant digital content. Perhaps there are people who may agree this performing, 
but I seriously do not believe so. From my point of view it goes against at least one 
right every human has, the right of free-thinking. And along with I am dealing with 
the United States of America, the right of having a free access to information. I 
consider it is true that this censorship doesn't happen only since the Bush 
administration, like this last I mentioned. There is an example of a famous one 
under Nixon's with the Watergate scandal in the 1970s. Nixon was the head of the 
Republican Party in the USA and was involved in illegal activities and espionage 
against the Democrat Party. Nixon was forced under the circumstances to quit the 
US Presidency <R>. This story of concealment and 
subterfuges has been part of the American history since those days and even it has 
not been solved until 2005 with the release of the identity of Deep Throat, the spy 
who gave the information of Nixon's activities to some journalists. It is quite clear 
and I believe that, that censoring information goes hand in hand not only with 
morals, but also with power and appearances, since censorship seems to be the key 
of the USA Government of maintaining the sense of having the issues under control. 
Coming back to the Indymedia shutting down, according to the International 
Federation of Journalists (IFJ), this action may be related to a court case in San 
Antonio, California, against some Indymedia activists who exposed security flaws in 
the electronic voting machines used by millions of voters in the November 2, 2004 
elections of the President of the United States. I think that as well as the 
Government wants to conceal information which could damage its interests, this 
Government has the aim to destroy those focuses of disturbance of its activities 
and show their disagreement with its plans. <Q> <R>.
	As Aidan says, we have witnessed this attack to the freedom of expression 
which has been reported in Europe, but almost nothing has appeared in the 
American mass media. This silence only underscores the role of the American 
corporate media as the accomplice of the Bush administration's attacks on 
democratic rights, both at home and abroad. This makes me feel a feeling of 
impotence because I am not a citizen of the United States, but I am undoubtedly 
being manipulated by a Government that is not mine. Which leads me to think that 
censorship in the USA is something that affects most of the called free-world, which 
results to be not so much free indeed. As a last example of this atmosphere of 
secrecy and censorship, the singer Elton John agrees with that saying <Q> <R>.
	To conclude, analysing the matter I consider that the USA Government is 
incurring in a great attempt to the most elemental rights of its citizens, spreading 
its influence all over the world. First of all, by eliminating some contents in the 
Internet in order to preserve the virtuosity of the citizens, the children and the 
adults. But forgetting that bad language, violence, sex, are all in the streets and in 
everyday life, and the Government can do absolutely nothing against that. Secondly, 
by directly deleting all contrary allusions to the current administration, prohibiting 
the freedom of expression and the freedom of being informed properly without a 
governmental filter. What could be the solution? I personally believe that there is 
no solution to that, but I would argue one recommendation, which is that the 
people should try to maintain their minds free, accessing to all the information they 
can from outside US borders. Nowadays with the Internet that is easier, but also 
they can use newspapers, radio and other means from abroad. And before that, try 
to make up their own and personal decision, which in this case it would have been 
taken from the analysis and oneself convictions. And I think that just in that 
moment, whatever is the way of thinking adopted, censorship has just been 
defeated in one first battle.




