		

	Child offences have existed from always and most of the people 
could admit that it's a matter of adults to correct and reconduct children's 
behaviour. But it is nowadays when the society is applying great efforts to 
improve their conduct attending their age, capacities and crime committed. 
At least in Western societies there are laws to punish young people when 
commit a crime of some nature, and therefore there are laws to protect 
their rights when they're under this kind of circumstances. As well as it is 
understood when a child commits a crime against somebody, there are two 
victims actually. The person who suffers the offence, and the child himself. 
So it could be admitted the society has the moral duty to repair the 
offended and the one who has offended. In this essay, I intend to give 
reasons why I think child offenders must be punished in any case of 
delinquency or misdemeanor, but accordingly to their age and crime, in 
order to correct their social behaviour.

	First of all, it seems to me that for avoiding the repetition of the 
offence, children must realise how far their acts have gone. I believe this 
aim can only be solved using two consecutive ways. Firstly, making them to 
be conscious of the act committed. This must be done by those adults who 
represent the authority to the child, that is their parents or tutors, and a 
representation of the social and legal authority, like a policeman. And 
secondly, establishing a punishment. That is a way of paying for the offence 
just after the child has in mind how wrong has been his or her 
misdemeanour, and the kind of damage he or she has caused. Some people 
could think a child committing a crime is not conscious of their acts, and 
because of that, the child cannot be responsible and afford the punishment 
to be rehabilitated. If so, parents bear over their shoulders the liability of 
children's mistakes and have to pay instead of them, leaving completely in 
parent's hands the re-education. I consider this is a great error. From my 
point of view, children should be punished since their very early ages, not 
only due to the mere act of punishing, but above all as a deterrent to 
reconduct and make children realise deeply that their behaviours are not 
acceptable at all. I agree with the policies that exist in England, Wales and 
Northern Ireland, where young people are judged to be criminally 
responsible at ten years of age, and at eight years in Scotland. Children can 
be charged and prosecuted because of their acts, but they're treated 
differently in order to rehabilitate them. If they are arrested, always an 
appropriate adult is present, that is one of the parents or a tutor. If it is a 
first offence, and the child admits it, the police can choose to issue a 
reprimand instead of prosecuting, and it doesn't form part of children's 
record. But if the child is brought to the court, everybody there has to use a 
proper language which the young person can understand. So, what happens 
here seems to me is: the child is taught about the consequences of their 
acts, he or she is treated as a liable person, and there are efforts to make 
sure they are being conscious of the whole process, and always bearing in 
mind and taking care that the child is someone to be re-educated.

	Another important point I think is good for youngsters when 
punished, is that this fact may serve to maintain their sense of 
responsibility, and to prepare them to live in a society which has rules and 
codes of behaviour. In order to get this aim, there are organizations that 
deal with children who committed offences and are not treated as criminals 
without remedy. These organizations try to study children's lives and to 
overcome their way of acting. The Children's Hearing originated in 1971 in 
Scotland. Their members are trained to investigate the family and confront 
the child with the consequences of his or her conduct. That makes me 
consider it is better not to bring children to the court, judge them and 
punish only attending the facts, but the best, from my viewpoint, is to look 
at the case since its roots, and try to solve it. So the child is punished, as 
well as not left at their fate. Many people could think this solution is not 
enough because it seems that not until the offender is punished and 
forgotten in jail, the victim is not defended. On the contrary, I believe being 
vengeful is not the appropriate way of children's re-education. As well as I 
don't agree the database created in UK to have a list of youngsters who 
behave badly or commit trivial misdemeanours is appropriate. It seems to 
me this kind of vengeful act against these children doesn't offer any help to 
rehabilitation. Even I almost think it may mark their lives unjustly for ever.

	Following this last argument I've just provided, I would assure 
that it is equally important to punish child offenders than to respect their 
rights and lives. That is to concede them the opportunity of a new point of 
departure. As I've said before, marking a child by including his or her name 
into a database due to a mere misdemeanour, not knowing it not even the 
parents, may produce the rebellion of the child against social codes in case 
it is published. Or causing the child and family a social stigma. If the crime 
committed is serious enough to follow the child's life, I consider the proper 
way of acting is not only by punishing, but also assisting them and their 
families as Children's Hearing does. But what happens with children's rights 
when the offence is committed in a third world country? According to a 
UNICEF research, in East Asia and Pacific region, it is extremely necessary 
to create new policies to protect children who committed crimes. The issue 
reports that after being arrested and prosecuted, children are left in prison 
with adult criminals, who abuse and mistreat children. Even sometimes they 
are considered as criminals because of their status as street children, as 
illegal immigrants or as non-citizens in the case of some ethnic minorities, 
and in most cases nobody is concerned about their re-education. I believe it 
is difficult not to argue against this fact. Personally speaking, child offences 
go to a secondary level when their rights are obviated. Definitely I would try 
always to bear in mind both rights and the aim of rehabilitation using a 
balanced punishment according to the age and crime.

	As a conclusion, child offenders must be rehabilitated above all, 
and the ways to achieve this aim are: to apply a balanced punishment on 
one hand, and the study of each circumstance to avoid the repetition of the 
crime, on the other hand. The steps to face with those children are: to 
make them to be conscious and responsible of their acts, to get to put them 
in the place of the victim, and to protect their rights in order to get a 
starting point in their lives. So, as child offences are a very delicate issue 
that must be treated carefully, policies have to develop constantly to attain 
the final fact of the integration of a child in society. Unfortunately, there are 
countries where these policies have to be created urgently, and be 
supported by the government and authorities, if we want to rescue a young 
generation from a lost destiny.



1

