Nowadays there is a big polemic because there are several opinions about the fact that if
a minor should be processed in the same way as an adult or not, and even we have been 
able to see the different changes made about the matter. For example, in the article 
Death Penalty for Juveniles, Charles Montaldo points out: <Q>. In this essay I am 
going to deal with the punishment that minors have to receive because, from my point 
of view, in many cases, they should have the same punishment as adults.
In first place, I think that, to be guided by the fact that a minor can not be judged as an 
adult only because of his/her age, is a grat mistake. It is true that this limit of age has 
been considered by experts to control and, at the same time, to protect the juveniles,but 
why the limit age has to be 18? In the United States people can drive at the age of 16 
but they think it is not appropiate thy can buy alcohol until they are 21 years old. 
However, in Spain, we let people buy alcohol at the age of 18 but not to drive until that 
same age. As another example, it is necessary to add that, several years before in this 
country, people could not vote until the age of 21, but now that age has been reduced to 
18 because it is thought that people at this age is mature enough to do it. So, my 
conclusion about this point is that the limit of the age depends on the fact we are dealing 
with and, in my opinion, it can be changed if necessary. The proof of this is that, in 37 
of  the United States, the limit age for being a minor is 18, however, in 10 states the age 
is 16 and in other 3 the upper limit is 15. Mark P., in the article The Hypocrisies of 
Juvenile Punishment asserts: <Q>
Looking to the fact that every person and every case is different from the rest, and it is 
very difficult to stabish a generel age in which a person is a minor in all his/her acts, I 
think that each case should be revised with great detail: his/her mental state, his/her 
family, etc. In that case, if it is observed that a determined minor is conscious of what 
he/she has done, independently of his/her age, the necessary measures must be taken 
and the corresponding punishment must be applied. A headline of a web page about 
juvenile punishmen says: <Q>. It is clear that it depends on the crime and on the person.
It is a fact that there are so many juvenile offenders that it would be very difficult to 
study every case with care in order to determine if the accused is responsible of his/ her 
acts. However, I think that if minor deffensors claime that minors are different from the 
adults and deserve another kind of consideration, the less they can do is to dedicate 
more time to study thir cases. I deffend that it is an essential right that minors should 
have so that there can not be mistakes with the sentences, since an accused could be 
rehabilitated or could not have been responsible of his/her crime, as in the case of the 6-
years-old child that drowned a baby in the United States some years ago.
Another point to deal with is the next one: can minors be rehabilitated? And, Should 
they have this right? From my point of view, and as I have said before, every case must 
be studied, but if it is possible that an accused can be rehabilitated, he/she should have 
the right. However, it depends on the kind of crime commited. An article of Juvenile 
<Q>.
However, some people assert that minors never have to be treated as adults, and even 
The Juvenile Criminal Justice System expesses: <Q>. In my 
opinion, a lot of minors are responsible of what they do and they have to be treated a s 
such.
By other hand, if a minor commits a serious crime an it is evident that he/she is 
responsible of his/her acts, why should not we treat them as adults? To me, it is very 
easy commiting a crime, in many cases predeterminatedly, and then feeling free of guilt 
because of being a minor. Charles Montaldo talks in one of his articles about a teen that 
bragged that he would get away with the murder of his neighbor because of his age. 
However, Mark P., in the article mentioned before, asserts that juveniles are allowed to 
go to adult courts, stay in adult prisons, and be subjected to the adult system of justice 
but they are not given adult privileges and rights.
From my point of view, we have to consider that juveniles are not acting as such when 
they commit a crime, so why Justice System should not treat them as adults? And 
nobody says that they can not have rights. Over 3.700 convicted children are not 
separated from adult prisoners, at risk of physical and sexual abuse and to me, it must 
be changed. Only because their physical and mental conditions are not the same as 
adults, they can not be put in prison with them. But what is a fact and can not be 
changed is that people has to pay for their acts and, if they commit a crime, they have to 
be punished. A study of the University of Chicago shows that increased punishment of 
juveniles reduces the amount of crime they commit in a way similar to the impact 
punishment has for adults.
Another point that I want to show clearly is that if we want to protect juveniles, we must 
punish them. Charles Montaldo asserts: <Q>. So, for this same protection of minors we should think 
about the juvenile victims that, altough they should have their rights too, are the most 
injured.
As a summary, I would like to say that, from my point of view, many people under 18 
are competent enough to know what they are doing and, if they act as adults, they must 
be judged as such, that is to say, of course, after a  detailed exam of the case and of the 
person because, I am sure of, if a minor can be rehabilitated, the study of his/her case is 
not a waste of time.


















        



















           JUVENILE PUNISHMENT 


















Raquel Cañas Fernández
Group 2
Essay 1, Draft 1






























