      
      Nowadays, education is one of the most important things for a society to 
prosper. Education forms the character and intelligence of our young people. But how 
should governments proceed to educate their country's children in an optimum way? 
There are remarkable differences in the content and the way things are taught in schools 
all around the world, even in the developed countries. But one sure thing is  that no 
country possesses a perfect education system, since every country has school failure, 
and children and teenagers have also become more difficult and better protected by their 
parents. As a result, school becomes less strict, since it requires less, and it is also less 
efficient. There isn't one right and ideal system. What one has, other lacks. Despite of 
this, I think the ideal system am would be a combination of different systems, and in 
this essay I would include two important factors that I consider important.
      First of all, the Waldorf system, funded by Steiner, gives the student what he/she 
needs depending on his/her evolution system and not by what social system wants of 
him/her. <Q> <R>.
      I am totally agree with Steiner's philosophy. I believe that, as he says, classes 
should be divided by the pupil's ability without regarding their age. I think that teachers 
should direct the students to classes matching their ability if they can't realize it by 
themselves. I strongly believe that this organization is more efficient, as good student 
are motivated and this way, would not feel slowed down by the rest, and on the other 
hand, less good students can spend more time on weaker subjects until they understand 
them. As of course most people have strong and weak subjects (some are good at 
everything or bad at everything, but they are very few). This way, good students at 
mathematics could be on 6th grade and in 4th at language. 
      Another possibility, in a way similar to Waldorf's system, is the education 
system they have in Switzerland. In Switzerland elementary (Volksschule) school starts 
at the age of seven and lasts at least eight, but usually nine years.  The Volksschule is 
divided into Primarschule and Oberstufenschule. <Q> <R>.
      I think this is also a good idea, since students could choose one level or other 
according to their possibilities, so those who want to continue studying should join the 
highest level, those who are not sure or do not want to go to further academic levels 
may join the second level, so they would not disturb or reduce the rhythm of those who 
really want to study. And finally those who have difficulties to study could be taught at 
their rythm. But, taking a step forward, I would propose that each subject should have 
three levels (strong, average, and weak or A, B and C...), and students should join each 
of them according to their performance in each subject instead of one level for all 
subjects since students do not perform the same way in each subject. To make it clear, I 
would give an example: if someone is very good at language, average at history and 
weak at maths, then this student should join the appropriate class level for each subject. 
This last possibility, has the advantage of releasing pressure on too difficult subjects and 
give the opportunity to learn more in what one is good at. Students could be allowed to 
change class level within the year, if they realized it is too easy or too difficult in the 
level they are. I strongly believe that this would reduce the failure rate at schools since 
each student would study according to his/her possibilities and to their own pace. 

      This organization by levels, gives a problem regarding the final exams. Should 
they be the same for every level? I would give two possibilities, either to give different 
exams for each level or keeping the same exams. 
      If different exams are given for each level, I think they should lead to different 
certifications at the end. That is to say, that after completing one cycle of education, 
students would get a certificate mentioning which level course they have followed for 
each subject during their academic lives. I believe that this has some advantages as for 
example that students would choose more easily their college/university orientation and 
the carrier that best fits 
      If we keep same exams, I propose that they should have different number of 
hours of class depending on the ability. That is, good students would have less hours to 
study the same thing, so they would have more spare time, either to study weaker 
subjects, or if there are not any (something which is very rare), just to relax or go back 
home earlier. 
      Secondly, the English system has an exam called GSCE that stands for "General 
Certificate of Secondary Education" <Q> <R>. Grades go from A to E where A, B and 
C are "passed", and if you want to continue studying at a higher level, you are required 
to have it. The fundamental ones are English and Mathematics. If you do not pass any 
GSCE exam you cannot continue studying. Even for being a bricklayer or a plumber 
you need to pass at least English and Mathematics. If students do not pass his/her 
GSCE, they can do an apprenticeship, where you can learn a job <Q> <R>.
      I believe that an exam is needed in each change of education cycle (for instance 
in Spain there should be an exam to pass from 4º of E.S.O to 1st of Bachillerato), so 
students can have a title in order to have a job but they have to attend an exam, and pass 
it if they want to go to a higher level. This I strongly believe would reduce school 
failure at high levels since only those who really want to study may attend these exams 
and could pass them easily. On the other hand, there might be some teachers that pass 
those students who are supposed not to pass their final exams so they can end their 
education with a title instead of finishing their education life without any kind of 
certificate which in my opinion is very sad. This occurs when they have repeated as 
many times as that the system does not allow them to continue studying. So this 
students would end their academic lives with a title, and then if they want to continue 
studying they would have to attend GSCE's that they may fail. GSCE's can be repeated 
as many times as you want to, there are also some academies which prepare specially 
for the these exams.
      To sum up, I have stated that Waldorf education proposes to divide pupils 
according to their abilities instead to their age. The Switzerland's education divides 
students in three levels dividing them into those who want to study, those who may not 
want to and those who have difficulties in learning. Another possibility is dividing them 
into three levels but conforming to their knowledge or abilities in each subject. This, I 
think it is a really good idea because this way pupils study at their own pace, which 
reduces considerately school failure. This has a problem, whether to make the same 
exams to every pupil without taking into account the level in which they are, or making 
different exams to each level. Then I have talked about one interesting part of the 
English Education system, where they have GSCEs, exams taken by students to 
continue studying after finishing one education cycle. I think that this is also a very 
good idea because worse students would finish their academic lives with a title and 
then, they might not pass to the next cycle where they would have more difficulties to 
pass. I believe that, although the perfect system does not exist, each system could be 
improved. The ideas I have planteado, may be applied among others to those system 
which have proved not to be functioning, for instance, the Spanish system.

 

