       One of the most recognised forms of child exploitation is child labour. It is 
difficult to know how many children are involved in child labour but, a report released 
by the International Labor Organization, estimates that there are more or less 250 
million children that work, and nearly 120 million that work in danger situations, such 
as working in mines or manipulating quimical products or danger machinery. They are 
everywhere, working behind the walls of the industries or hidden in the plantations or in 
the domestic service. In this essay, I am going to give what in my opinion are possible 
solutions to gradually decrease the number of  exploited children in the third world, 
specially centering on education.
	First of all, I am opposed to the involement of children in labour force activities 
when they are at an age when other activities, such as go to school, or play should be 
the central role of their development. But, some people argue that for nearly the 30% of 
the population in poor countries, the poorest ones, are not able to earn  enough money 
for one day food when there is a big family, and so,  they have to depend on children to 
earn, this is the main cause of children not going to school, or dropouts.
	I think that a possible solution could be to provide free education in the 3rd world 
countries, children are eager to learn, though, they do not have access to education. I 
strongly beleive that education is a basic human right, and that it is fundamental to the 
fight for human dignity and freedom. Nevertheless, there are people who say that 
providing free education is not possible because it is very expensive to provide books 
and materials for every child, that opening schools and providing books are not 
sufficient measures. Also industries are not interested in sending children to school 
because children are more submissive and cheaper than adults are, so industries earn 
money with working children. However, sending every children to school is possible, 
since for example, The Global Campaign for Education, provides education as a basic 
human right and provides <Q>. 
       But to achieve this, that children should go to school, it is neccessary to make 
parents see that chidren should attend classes. I think that if parents visited schools and 
see by themselves what education would do to their children, parents would send 
children to school. Yet, people argue that if parents do not send their children to school 
is because they need their children to work, that they want their children to go to school.  
However, there are still parents that do not want their children to go to school because 
they think is useless.
        I would argue that we need to understand the reason behind child labour, that I 
tend to beleive it is poverty and unemployment, so another solution might be 
minimizing poverty and the creation more jobs and more suitable jobs to parents. By 
this I prettend to say that if parents have more suitable jobs, they would have more 
money, and children may do not need to work and can attend classes and play that it is 
what they should do. But some people think that minimizing poverty is an utopia, that it 
is imposssible, that it would be great but that it is impossible because there are millions 
of poor people and we cannot help everybody. Yet, I still beleive that creating jobs it 
could be a good solution.   
       However, I beleive that to reduce poverty,  goverments of developed countries 
should help, not necessarily with money, to undeveloped countries, so they could 
devolpe gradually. They can help giving school materials, teach adults how to improve 
their economy or things like that. But, of course, governments of rich countries are not 
interested in this because they want to prevail over poor countries. Nevertheless, I still 
think that the little rich governments of developed countries could help, it would be very 
helpful to gradually reduce poverty.
	Another solution regarding education could be making a law that sends to school 
every child under a certain age. For example in Spain, the minimum age to work is 
sixteen years old. But, again industries do not want children go to school because they 
are cheaper. Also, some people argue that it is very difficult to control that every 
children goes to school since there are lots of uncontrolled working children, specially 
in the domestic service. However, it is proved that where this law has been applied, 
child labour has decreased. An example is the one we find in China, were there has been 
very little child labour in the last decades. The same has occured in Kerala, India, where 
child labour has been practically abolished.
	It is evident that there is a relation between child labour and poverty, since 
working children are mostly in poor countries. Employment is a solution, which is 
linked to education, because I strongly beleive that education is also a way of 
adquisition for better employable skills needed to get a good and gainful employment. 
The skills that are acquired at school may lead to the sort of gainful employement that 
will help children to rise above the poverty in which they were born. And if they have 
gainful employements, they will save their own children from exploitation and it would 
continue through generations. It is also likely to be that if children have education, they 
will give education for their children.
	To conclude,  I have tried to show that education is really a good solution to 
avoid child labour.  I have given many solutions, some of them more easily to apply 
than others. But to prevent child exploitation we have to make an effort. I have said that 
to prevent child exploitation, education is the main solution. I have talked about, on the 
one hand about the possibility of providing free education to every children, and on the 
other hand to establish a law that forbids working children under a certain age. Finally I 
have said that if education is given to children, they would have better employments and 
they would provide education to their children. If this occurs, it might be a moment 
when child labour is paractically abolished, and indirectly, undeveloped countries may 
develop themselves.


