	Sex education, is the process of acquiring information and forming attitudes and 
beliefs about sex, sexual identity, relationships and intimacy. It is also about developing 
young people's skills so that they make informed choices about their behaviour, and feel 
confident and competent about acting on these choices. Sex education is a subject area 
within the broad framework of community awareness. It is a subject that has become 
more important for all age groups, including children as well. Since parents are not able 
to be always around their children 24 hours a day, it is necessary to create awareness 
among children so they can protect themselves. In this essay I'm going to discuss if this 
subject should be taught at school or should be parent's duty.
       Many people think that sexual education for adolescent children should be 
necessary for many reasons. The three main reasons are: first, to increase AIDS 
awareness; second, to reduce the teen pregnancy rates and the negative outcomes that 
this includes; and last but not least to promote overall sexual health of students. We see 
through the media that children are not safe since many of them have been sexually 
abused. This is because of the acts of some ill people, but also a lack of awareness on 
the part of children. These people argue that Sexual Education, taught properly, could 
become a part of any scientific subject like Human Biology, Human anatomy, Human 
Behaviour or Health. 
       Schools say that sexual education should be taught at school since at home there 
may be times when children and teenagers seem reluctant to talk with their parents. 
Schools argue that parents may understand this reluctance as meaning that there is 
nothing left to talk about and that their children have no doubts left. "Yes!" Survey 
research consistently shows that: "Canadian parents and students want schools to 
provide sexual health education programs." For example, Lawlor and Purcell (1988) 
found that 95% of their sample of Montreal area parents of high school students 
approved of sexuality education in the schools.
       Besides, there is an ex-Bishop says: <Q> He says that schools should inform 
about how to prevent unwanted pregnancies.
       On the other hand, many people argue that children, who learn about sexual 
education, are more likely to fall into sexual activities. That even though they have 
received a proper sexual education, and have been warned against it, they give into 
sexual activities since they might see it as a sign of adulthood. An English student says 
<Q>.       
       Parents, say that sexual education should be imparted at home. They argue that it 
is at home where young people can easily have one-to-one discussions with parents 
which makes easier to focus on specific issues. They can also have a dialogue about 
their children attitudes and views. Parents argue that sex education at home also tends to 
take place over a longer time than in schools, and involve lots of short interactions 
between parents and children. Parents feel that they should be the primary sexuality 
educators of their children. From the moment of birth, they say to teach their children 
about love, touch, and relationships. Toddlers receive the beginnings of sexuality 
education through imitation when their parents talk to them, show affection, and teach 
them the names of the parts of their bodies. Many American parents believe they should 
teach their children about sex in order to ensure their values and ideas are ingrained in 
their children. They say that at school children may receive a unique point of view about 
sex education, so parents prefer to teach themselves their children. By this, they ensure 
that children are taught according to their religion, culture and so on. For example, they 
may want their children to understand no alternative but abstinence and that sex is only 
to be shared after marriage. And maybe at school, teachers do not see it this way. 
Moreover, José Sánchez, the Sigüenza's Bishop argues that <Q>.
       Besides, there are people who stay in a middle point saying that sexual education 
should be taught at schools but it should be changed. Some parents believe that sexual 
education should be taught at schools, but that it should be change because it is not 
working, since pregnancy rates are increasing among the teenagers. 
       Furthermore, some psychologists say that sexual education should be taught both 
at school and at home. Since in school the interaction between teachers and young 
pupils takes a different form and it is often provided in organised blocks of lessons and 
imparted by specialists. The Canadian Guidelines for Sexual Health Education 
suggests: <Q>. It is not as well suited to advising the individual as it is to providing 
information from an impartial point of view as teachers have and parents do not. The 
most effective sex education, acknowledges the different contributions each setting can 
make. Schools programmes should involve parents. Schools notify them what is being 
taught and when, and can support the initiation of dialogue at home, where parents 
could talk to their children about what they have done that day at "Sexual Education". 
Psychologists support that parents and schools both need to engage with children and 
teenagers about the messages that they get from the media, and give them opportunities 
for discussion. The sexuality education that parents provide to their children should be 
supplemented by planned learning opportunities in churches, synagogues and other 
places of worship, community youth agencies, and schools. An American mother says 
"Yes! I think sex education should be taught in the school systems all over America. I 
believe that it is the parent's job to teach at home FIRST, but in the real world that 
doesn't happen. I'm all for handing out some sort of birth control, especially if my child 
asks for it."
       To sum up, in this essay I have given the different points of view regarding 
where "sex education" should be taught. First, I have remarked that sexual education, 
according to some parents and teachers, should be taught at school to create awareness 
in children. Secondly, I have said that many parents do not want their children to be 
taught "sex education at schools" so parents can teach their children themselves. Finally 
I have marked that many psychologists believe that sexual education must be imparted 
both at school and at home. It is clear that this topic is very controversial, and it will 
keep going for a while. What everybody has clear is that sexual education should be 
taught, and this is a great step forward in the fight. What is left is to reach an agreement. 





