In these days, there have been an increase of illegal drugs like cannabis, cocaine, extasis 
and other kind of varieties. It means that years of prohibition have not resolved the 
problem with drugs and this prohibition has caused bigger damages than the ones 
caused by drugs. Drugs are chemical compounds that modify the way the body and 
mind work. Most people think that these biological activities should help or heal sick 
people or animals. The history of drugs is shrouded in the beginnings of the human race. 
Alcohol was made, drunk and used to excess as far back as memory and records go. 
Tobacco, cannabis, opium and other plants containing drugs have been chewed and 
smoked almost as long as alcohol and coffee has been served in the Middle East 
throughout that area's history. The word drug has acquired bad connotations in recent 
years because the widespread abuse of a few chemicals that affect the central nervous 
system has become a serious sociological problem. In this essay I intend to argue that 
legalizing drugs could be beneficious to society in numerous ways.

In my opinion drugs should be legalized because it would suppose a benefit in the field 
of medical science and politics (I mean war against drug-related crime). In recent years 
it has been discovered that the use of marijuana alleviates several symptoms associated 
with cancer and AIDS treatments and disorders. The patients are currently forced to 
choose between breaking the law to reduce symptoms or suffering life-changing 
symptoms rather than break the law. I think medicinal marijuana should be legalized so 
that those who already suffer the disadvantage of disease will not also be forced to 
suffer treatment symptoms that are easily corrected. Although on the other hand it is 
studied that using marijuana can have negative effects like short-term memory loss. 
There are claims of an "amotivational syndrome" where users are said to withdraw from 
society and lose ambition. In some cases high quantity users can experience feelings of 
anxiety and depression. During pregnancy, cannabis can have negative consequences 
for the fetus. Also it has negative effects on the inmune system. Cannabis influences 
fertility and can cause schizophrenia and psychosis in people who are sensitive to it. 

However, cannabis has also been known for its many therapeutic uses, including the 
treatment of open angle glaucoma, asthma, and the nausea associated with 
chemotherapy. It has also been described as a tumor retardant, an antibiotic, a sleep 
inducer and a muscle relaxant. Under my point of view, the positive effects of marijuana 
weigh more than the negative ones so I think it should be legalized.

I must speak too about the benefit in money and power that have narco-traffickers, 
banks and some governments because of the prohibition. The benefit of narco-
traffickers is clear. Without prohibition their business would not cost anything. Thanks 
to prohibition is the best business of the world. The collective damages which are 
derived from the wealth and power of narco-traffickers are also clear.

The interest of banks is also quite clear. Drugs moves millions of dollars per year and 
this money is washed through the banks, through all banks. The fact of that this volume 
of money has way through the banks can be bad or good, that is another discussion; but 
even the governments would prefer without any doubt that it would be clean money. I 
think that governments have also reasons to keep the prohibition of drugs but less 
evident than the ones of narco-traffickers and banks. They are less evident because they 
are disguised behind a moral rhetoric and it's necessary to dismantle this rhetoric to see 
which their real interests are.

In my opinion by legalizing drugs, there would be no more drug offenders to lock up. 
Since many drug users would no longer be comitting violent or property crimes to pay 
for their habits, there would be fewer real criminals. This decrease in inmates would 
bring the overflowing prison system down to its rated capacity. I believe that the 
excessive efforts now used against drug activity and drug-related crimes by police 
would then be put to use more effectively for catching rapists, murderers and the 
remaining criminals who commit crimes against people and property. By legalizing 
drugs thousands of cases would be wiped off the courts permitting the rest to move 
faster. Prosecutors would have more time to handle cases, and judges could make more 
considered decisions.

On the other hand the legalization opponents reject the argument that liberalizing drugs 
would benefit society. They insist that legalizing drugs would inevitably lead to an 
increase of newly legalized drugs such as marijuana, cocaine, heroin and amphetamines. 
They think that the more a product is available and legalized, the greater will be its use. 
Once legalized, drugs would become cheaper and more accesible to people who 
previously had not tried drugs because of the high price or the legal risk. Also they will 
be more accesible to the young, addicted and ignorant. This increased drug use would 
cause perhaps a variety of problems, including a decrease in workplace productivity and 
a rise in automobile and on-the-job accidents, health problems and crime. I agree about 
this argument; addicts who tend to stop, not by choice, but because the drugs aren't 
accesible would now feed the addiction if drugs were made legal. These drug addicts 
would not be forced to kick the habit due to the availability of the drug they would 
partake eagerly. Another opinion against legalization is that temptation to use drugs 
would increase when advertisements for cocaine, heroin and marijuana are displayed on 
television. Also, some health officials have shown that the legalization of drugs would 
cause a rapid increase of diseases such as AIDS. AIDS poses a growing threat to some 
addicts and thus to society as a whole.

However, under my point of view, easing the drug laws would have numerous benefits. 
Perhaps, most importantly, it would destroy the black market for drugs and the 
criminality that surrounds it. If drugs were legal and available in the legitimate 
marketplace, drug smugglers and their networks of dealers would be put out of business. 
Drug gangs would no longer engage in violent battles for turf. Inner-city children would 
no longer be lured into drug-dealing gangs.

Legalizing drugs would also increase our economy's revenue: the drugs should be taxed 
heavily to increase our revenue. Drugs would be made by the same people who make 
aspirin, so the quality would be assured: no poisons, no adulterants.

I think there is a common misconception among those who want drugs to remain illegal 
forever, and that is that by eradicating the supply, the drug problem will eventually 
disappear. The problem is, drugs can never be eliminated. As long as there are people 
who want drugs, there will be those who are willing to sell. By getting rid of one drug 
dealer, another takes its place. By getting rid of one drug cartel, another emerges. The 
funds spent on reducing supplies could be better used to reduce the amount of demand 
by better educating children and adults alike.

To conclude, I strongly believe that the benefits of legalization will outweigh the 
negative ones: less crime, less available for greater rehabilitation efforts, fewer jail cells 
and prisoners, better utilization of law enforcement personnel, greater respect for the 
law, fewer corrupted policeman and fewer deaths for impure substances.
 

