Nowadays migration is a permanent feature in Europe. There is migration for work, 
migration for sanctuary, migration for family reunion, migration due to political 
instability, conflicts, crime, lack of opportunities and education, poverty. There are 
countries like Spain or Britain which have, for centuries, been making and remaking 
themselves through interacting with various cultures and religions. In the past it was 
through conquest and travel. Now, it could be said that in both cases the Empire has 
come home and that now there is no systemic ideology of inequality between the 
descendants of past rulers and subjects. In this essay I will discuss a variety of possible 
arguments concerning immigration.

Someone in favour of immigration is Nigel Harris, professor of the Economics, 
University College in London. He defines Spain and the UK as part of a global labour 
market with inter-company transfers, skills shortages, a declining population of working 
age and an unwillingness of European citizens to do certain kind of jobs in spite of 
unemployment. He says that immigration can help rejuvenate the population, though it 
would have to take place on a really massive scale to have a significant impact on the 
age profile. Besides, immigrant workers generally take jobs which native workers refuse 
to do, because they offer low pay or low status (harvesting crops, washing dishes or 
working in low-wage manufacturing). Nigel Harris proposes more open EU 
immigration policies. He argues that the emergence of a single world economy with a 
single labour market implies continuous movement of workers between different 
geographical areas; different locations across the world produce a different bundle of 
skills in the labour force - an optimal level of production thus requires migration to 
balance the local labour supply and hence maximise economic growth, the enhancement 
and welfare of incomes as well as achieve the fastest reduction in poverty. This is an 
argument of self interest for the rich countries, say Harris. A similar opinion is 
expressed by Carlos Giménez, director of the Centre For Migrations And 
Multiculturality in Autonomous University in Madrid. He says that if it was possible for 
Third World nationals to enter and leave freely, they would not choose to settle away 
from home. He asks for more open immigration policies that do not force permanent 
settlements and will therefore decrease illegality on the immigrants. Carlos Giménez 
also argues that remittances are of increasing importance in developing countries and 
could be offset by AID budgets. The money sent back gets to the people and not to the 
corrupt rulers. Another argument in favour of immigration is that <Q> <R>. Bruel believes immigration should be seen through the point of view of rights, 
ethics and the human condition.

In my opinion, as we see in Spain nowadays, immigrants that arrive due to the lack of 
opportunities in their countries of origin (Ecuador, Colombia, Morocco, Peru, 
Romania...) are usually young people who have come to fill the jobs in which there was 
no labour force and, indirectly, they have changed the average age. From an economic 
perspective, researches and statistics highlighted the benefit to recipient countries, for 
example, immigrants in Spain contributed four per cent to the GDP although they were 
only three per cent of the population and the Instituto de Migraciones y Servicios 
Sociales in 1998 revealed that Spanish immigrants contributed 187 million pesetas in 
taxes over benefits). Besides, part of the incomes these immigrants receive are sent to 
their families, giving to them economic resources, what is, in my opinion a positive 
thing. Immigrants here in Spain usually choose their jobs in the food and service 
industry and in the sector of construction; I believe this is beneficial because they are 
jobs that native citizens do not want to do though they are necessary jobs for the 
economy. From my point of view, with  more open immigration policies, Third World 
immigrants could enter and leave freely of their countries and situations of danger 
would be avoided, situations that tragically end the life of the immigrant, as we see 
almost everyday in the news.

On the other hand, there are people who only see negative consequences on the fact of 
immigration. They argue that immigration implies the growth in illicit business that 
feeds the black economy including the trafficking of persons for sexual and labour 
services. Also, they highlight the fact that emigration encourages the most committed 
people, the potential leaders and intellectuals to leave their countries. This is a negative 
thing for these countries because they lose their top leaders, which consequently stunts a 
country's development. They also say that among immigrants we find the assertion of 
ethnocentricity, based on distrust of others; cultural relativism without any commitment 
to human rights; problems with self-esteem and the integration due to the discriminatory 
perception of the host society; intolerance, with clashes and conflicts. Another negative 
things they argue against immigration is the imbalance that the incomes from 
emigration create between households in the same community, which could undermine 
solidarity; the expansion of trafficking with persons; and there are some risks they 
underline: the risk of the social exclusion of undocumented persons and others who do 
not manage to integrate; the danger of ghettoisation (when the ghettoes are imposed, 
negative for the immigrants; when they are voluntary or defensive, negative for the host 
country); the blossoming of conflicts, racism and discrimination; the clashes between 
different ways of conceiving gender, education and the family.

It is a fact that immigration has negative consequences but, in my opinion, the country 
which "opens his doors" to its economic development should try to solve the big 
problems of the massive arrival of immigrants: giving them residence permit, work 
permit, sanitary attention, access to housing and access to education. It should fight 
against the illegal immigration to avoid the traffic of human beings; governments could 
facilitate the immigrant's return to his or her native country if he or she wishes to come 
back due to poor integration. Also, I think that the economic contribution of migrants to 
the GDP, to deprived areas, to businesses, to the arts and popular culture must be made 
known more widely to make easier their integration in the host society.

Finally, there are people who think that an open door immigration policy could be 
negative but still believe in promoting immigration with limits. This is the case of 
Harriet Sergeant, who works in the Centre for Policy Studies. Sergeant suggests 
introducing a fixed quota system across the EU that would decrease gangster activity of 
human trafficking in the black market; this also gives more power to the national 
governments to control the flow of immigrants. Sergeant says that an open door policy 
is unrealistic and harmful to inter-relationships with other EU countries; she argues that 
an open door policy would create problems of security and terrorism; for example, 
Sergeant has researched that the black economy was "big business" and that the catering 
industry (which uses badly paid and appallingly treated illegal labour) was now worth 
more than traditional industries such as ship building). This is due to the grim 
conditions in the Third World, that the 22 million people who can claim refugee status 
cannot travel because they have not got the money; hence the success of the black 
economy and human traffickers. A fixed quota system would not be unrealistic nor 
harmful because it would implement a more controlled system of checking the 
immigrants who enter and leave the country. Also it would be based on the labour needs 
of the country, limiting a massive arrival of immigrants.

It seems that Harriet Sergeant is afraid of a "swamping" if an open door policy is 
established. In my opinion, a fixed quota system is a good alternative to the open door 
policy because immigrants benefits themselves of a real labour, because the quotas are 
established according to the needs of labour supply in the host country, but in this way it 
would not be enough to stop the illegal traffic of people by the mafias if the demand for 
work is bigger than the number of people who wants to move. In that case I think that a 
strict policy would be necessary to avoid the mafia's activity. Under my point of view, 
another way to avoid illegal immigration is by sending economic help to developing 
countries (through NGO or international associations to control where this money goes), 
facilitating the education of young people, and offering medical attention.

To sum up, we have noticed that immigration is seen under different points of view, I 
mean, there are some who see immigration as a necessary and positive thing; there are 
others who see it as something negative and finally there are people who see 
immigration as something necessary but they think it should be limited by laws to 
control its negative aspects. So the immigration debate is not about race or 
multiculturalism but about numbers and specifically about young people who want 
something better for themselves and their families.



