      Nowadays, there is a great problem in the world. This problem is about the 
children that are being exploited around the globe. This issue is more usual in poor 
countries, but it also happens in rich counties, or developed countries. Everyday, we can 
see on the news and in the television the exploitation that the children around the world 
are suffering, and how the governments try to stop it. But it seems that they are not so 
effective fighting this problem because it not only does not disappear but it increases 
day by day. This problem is related to some circumstances that made it difficult to 
resolve, because there are another problems to solve before. But what I am going to do 
with this essay is trying to put forward my opinion on some of the most important 
aspects of this children exploitation.
      
      Firstly, in my point of view, is focusing on the most important issue, in this 
problem, that is the International Children's Rights, made by United Nations. In which 
the member nations wrote some basic principles to protect the children of the world. But 
I think is a fact that these Rights are clearly violated. These Rights are violated in some 
ways, which I am going to develop later. These ways are very different but these have 
some points in common. And to solve these ways is a very hard work for the 
governments. But, in my view, this could be possible if the sanctions to the guilty 
nations or people were hardly executed, and it does not happen always.
      
      Secondly, I am focusing on another great problem that is the Children's Right 
violation is more important in poor countries. It occurs because these countries have a 
lot of problems, and poverty is a great handicap in order to solve them. These countries 
do not have the necessary resources to develop themselves. I think that they depend on 
the rich countries to help them, but what happens is that the develop countries are the 
first that exploit these countries, to make themselves richer. For this reason, furthermore 
these countries have a lot of lacks; they do not have enough infrastructures, institutions, 
and so on, and in addition to this, people who lives in these countries have to live as 
they can and the children have to do it too.
      
      Related to the poverty, I have to write about what it implies. One of the biggest 
problems is the need of money, and the children have to work since they are very little 
to earn it. But also, the conditions in which they have to work are deploring, even 
dangerous for them. It is usual that in these countries children work and it is assumed, 
but I think that not for that reason it is something correct. And it is one of the most 
important problems against the governments of the developed countries have to fight. 
Because if children are working, they are not in school and they cannot develop as the 
rest of children in the rich countries. In consequence this made that the country never 
can be developed, because the future of any country are their children. What I think is if 
the children are analphabetic, it means that they do not have any kind of basic education, 
and then the country is condemned not to move on.
      
      In addition to this problem, is that these children have to work in any kind of job. 
Like the problem is to earn money, one of the most increasingly way to get it is the 
children prostitution. It is a very fast way of earning money and a very easy to access, 
because it is in everywhere. In my view, it is instigated firstly in the families to get 
money; and secondly by the mafias which exploit the children to obtain money. This 
last phenomenon, called in the developed countries as "sexual tourism", is increasing 
more and more. I think if the governments of the rich countries make great punishments 
to the people who do it; the sexual exploitation of the children will decrease, at least. 
The sexual exploitation has to be severely sanctioned, because, in my point of view, it is 
a very humiliating practice, which removes the innocence of the children which is very 
unjust.
      
      The last problem related to the Children's Right violation in these third world 
countries I am going to show my opinion is apart of the poverty. It is that the majority 
of these countries are involved in bellicose conflicts. It occurs because they are 
governed by dictators and people are discontented, then the confrontations appear. In 
these countries there is no army, what implies that is civil people who have to fight. It 
includes the children. It is usual to watch them on the television, children with no more 
than seven years catching fusils or any other kind of weapons. It is something hard to 
watch these young kids killing other people or being killing themselves, only because 
they can use a weapon and the country is in a war. It is a very difficult issue to combat 
for the governments of the develop countries. But another problem of the wars in these 
countries is that children that not take part directly on the conflicts are injured or killed 
by the repercussions. I means, that there are a lot of children injured by the mines, the 
enemy or allied fire; it marks them for the rest of their life making it much difficult than 
before if it is possible. The government of the rich countries send to them humanitarian 
help, but I think that it is not enough. They should try to stop the conflicts, not with 
more conflicts, but trying to balance the possibilities of all these third world countries.
      
      In conclusion, in my view the governments of the developed countries should try 
to remove all the handicaps of these poor countries, on the measure they can; and not 
using them to increase their wealthy. I think the poverty could be erased if all the 
powerful countries made contributions, of any kind like economic, humanitarian, 
institutional, and soon. Removing the poverty can help to the children to have a normal 
life. They can give up working and they do not have o prostitute themselves to earn 
money for their families or to them. And then if people have an education they can 
develop their country and the conflicts will disappear with a more democratic politic in 
them. In my point of view is a very difficult goal to obtain; but with the help of all the 
develop nations and the help of the people who lives in them. Then the International 
Children's Right will no more violated, or at least it will be very difficult to do.
