
	It is obvious that there is a difference between men and women anatomically speaking. But are the others differences biological or social? There are people and researches that think and try to demonstrate that are several differences between both genders only attending to their nature. However, there are another people and investigations that think and study that these differences are not based on the characteristics of each person as if the relationship among other people and what is surrounding them; it means that the difference is marked by their gender and their social status. In this essay I will try to focus on arguing these two ways of thinking in order to obtain a major knowledge in this issue.

	Firstly, I am going to focus on those people who think that the there is a biological distinction between men and women. There are several studies about differences in the cognitive pattern that demonstrate that men are capable of developing some skills and women are in other ones. <Q> <R>. 

	Also, there are other researches based on the study of the brain in order to find differences between men and women that exclude the developing of skills. These are focused on the comparison among the numerous characteristics that all human being have. <Q> <R>.

	Finally, there is another kind of investigations that try to explain those distinctions, in a biological way. These are which are based on the hormones. This issue is important because the amount of both hormones, testosterone for men and progesterone for women, determines the ability to develop the skills formerly quoted in this way. <Q> <R>. The amounts of these hormones are not always the same. It changes due to several factors like: the seasons and the menstrual cycle, only in the case of women.

	Secondly, I am going to focus on the people who argue the differences between men and women in a social way. In this issue there is a distinction, differences that exist in order to the gender and differences due to the social status. This general item is split into these two particular ones to make the development of them simply. Although, nowadays in our society men and women are on the same level more and more. However, it is not really true because it is only a theoretical topic which still is far of being practical.
	This difference between genders is shown in something daily as the job. Nowadays, men earn much more money than women who develop the same kind of work. <Q> <R>. In order to make this distinction clearer, there is an example of two salaries in United States: <Q> <R>. This is an important issue in what is concerning to the differences of gender.

	Furthermore, another distinction related to gender differences to be into account is that the amount of men who are occupying a public charge, in the government for example is more elevated than the amount of women. Here we have a practical example, with the amounts of the United States bureau in 2002: <Q> <R>.

	Finally, the differences that concern the social status are several. Some relevant ones are: economic status, because when people depend in general on the wages of the other person appears a handicap they have to overcome; hierarchical status, this condition affects both genders in the same way, because the differences in the social scale makes difficult the relationship between them. The social class that people belong makes them to play a very concrete role into the society. This issue creates a great difference for both men and women.

	In conclusion, the two main aspects of the differences between men and women the biological one with the distinctive cerebral patterns which develops innate skills, and the alteration of these due to the action of the hormones, and the proper characteristics of each genders; and the social one with the difference in the wages in the same work, and the majority of public charges occupied by men, and the handicaps in the social status; establish and refutes that these differences really exists even if they are for a good or a bad way. This essay tries to show some of these differences in order to get an open range view on this issue and to increase our knowledge of if too.
