
	Television plays a very important role on people life, nowadays. And one of the 
problems which are appearing today, related to the television, it is its content. Some 
people discuss about how these contents influence in our behaviour and more concretely 
in children behaviour. These people think that television influences children in a major 
way because they watch it more hours than adults do, and because of their age. In this 
essay I am going to focus on three problems which are associated to the television. 
These problems are the number of hours people usually spends watching it; the violence 
which is shown in it; and a growing problem which is called in Spain "telebasura".

	In first place, one of the biggest problems related to the television is that the 
number of hours that people, and specially children, spends on watching it is of a very 
high level, according to the specialists in this issue. <Q> <R>. Really, I think that it is absolutely true. And, in my 
opinion, it is a pity because while they are watching the television they are loosing a lot 
of more interesting things to do. I believe that this time they are watching TV, is 
stealing them a very important and necessary capacity in our lives that is the 
relationships with other people. The lack of this capacity is dangerous because we are 
social living creatures and this characteristic make what we really are. If we can solve 
this problem I would suggest reinforce social activities and make them funny and 
attractive for the children, because now, I think, they are obligated in some way to 
develop them. And it is not a proper manner fix the problem.

	Secondly, another big problem connected to the television is the amount of 
violence that it shows indiscriminately. Specialists argue that the violence is presented 
in the majority of channels schedule, even in the children time, when it must be shown 
only in adult time. <Q> <R>. I think it is a serious problem because TV is very influential to this kind 
of people because they are in a learning phase of their lives. I strongly believe that the 
people responsible of the channels should think about what they are going to show and 
what time it is going to be shown.

	Related to this issue, some specialists link the fact of the channels show a lot of 
violence with an increase in children aggressive. <Q> <R>. I am not entirely agree with these affirmation. It is because 
I do not believe that only the television can develop our mind. I think it is more 
complicate and there are more factors that influence our mind like the family, friends, 
city, country,... in general our environment. <Q> <R>. I am totally agree with this author because what really make us the people we are 
is our social environment and the values that it transmit to us. I could use a very clear 
example: <Q> <R>. It could be applied to me and my environment. Because we grew up 
watching on TV "manga" (Japanese cartoons with violent content in their arguments). 
And I do not consider myself, neither my friends, as antisocial or aggressive people.

	In third place, the last problem I am going to focus on this essay is an emerging 
way of doing television. In Spain it is called "telebasura". It consists in a series of 
magazines which content different topics like debates, actuality,... The term "telebasura 
is explained as: <Q> <R>. This phenomena grows up gradually and it 
took place in the major schedule time of the programming in the Spanish channels. It 
appears during the whole day, morning, afternoon and evening. The gender which is 
more used by this phenomena is the debate, which is characterised by: <Q> <R>. This way of doing television is, 
in my opinion, a very profitable one. All the programs are the same only change people 
in them and talk about the same themes. The objective of these programs is: <Q> <R>. The majority of people watch this kind of magazines included me, but I 
strongly believe that they should be erased from programming because they do not 
contribute to do a good television. The government and the pertinent institutions must 
do something to try eradicating the "telebasura". It could be done because, although 
there are a few good programs, they exist and I would like they were supporting.

	To conclude, from my point of view there are some problems related to the 
television and its programming that could be changed to improve its own quality. I am 
referring to the issues later mentioned: the amount of hours that, children specially, 
spends in front of the television that could be reduced if institutions like school or 
parents associations develop some social activities and make them interesting for young 
people. Violence shown in the television should be less than actually and changing its 
time to another in which children cannot access as easily as usually. And the 
denominated "telebasura" should be changed into magazines with a lot of more 
interesting, cultural and social contents that improve the obtaining of a better television. 
I think if the people responsible of the channels, in first instance, and the institutions, in 
second instance, make an effort to regulate these problems and take hard measures, it 
could be possible although it take place slowly. I think that at last is an effort of 
everybody to make a better television.

