Prostitution has always been a controversial subject. There are some countries in which 
this sector is going to suffer many changes, such as Sweden, where the government 
created a law prohibiting the selling of sexual services. There are also countries in 
which prostitution will be able to act officially as any other worker. The so called "the 
oldest profession in the world", was treated in different cultures, in many different 
ways. Herodotus described it as part of a religious ritual, created to celebrate the sexual 
power of the fertility goddess, Venus. In other countries, such as West Nepal, some low 
castes engage in prostitution to support their parents and as a way to reinforce the cast 
system. Today, in some towns of Russia, such as Saratov, the economic problems drive 
teachers, nurses, single mothers..., to work as prostitutes. This provokes a rise in the 
orgnanized crime rates and a higher risk in AIDS transmission. In this essay I will 
discuss the different arguments concerning the legalization of prostitution, especially in 
Europe, where recent events, such as the representation of this sector in the European 
Parliament, have raised the question of whether it would be better to invent new laws to 
protect the civil rights of these sex workers. or to forbid completely the practice of 
prostitution in general.

One of the main arguments in favour of the legalization of prostitution is that it would 
be a way of stopping organized crime to take advantage of the great number of 
immigrants who have no other opportunity, but to sell themselves in the streets. There 
are those who believe that laws controlling this sector will reduce violence against sex 
workers, and consequently violence against women in general. Recent studies show that 
among 130 street workers, 80% of them had been physically assaulted <R>. Some 
defenders of this legalization would claim, that there are many reasons to this. Firstly, 
they believe that many women work as prostitutes, because they don't have any other 
skills to get money, especially street workers, which are primarily homeless, or drug 
addicts. Secondly, there are those who think that the fact that prostitutes are mainly 
represented by desperate people, a legalization would animate other women to get 
involved in it and what this people need is to be out of the streets and a few guiding 
principles. It could be argued, therefore, that a legalization of prostitution instead of 
helping this sector, it seems that it could encourage homeless or drug addicts women to 
remain in the same situation. This would seem illogical, and there is no data to show 
that this will really happen.

It might also be argued that, since prostitution penalties are just based on the payment of 
a fine or in some cases, a little period in jail, and then the prostitute is on the streets 
again, so the legalization of this activity will not only reduce the amount of money and 
police forces at taxpayer's expense, but it contributes to respect, a little bit more, the 
law, and to reduce prison overcrowding <R>. Consequently, this will leave the police 
the opportunity to rescue other victims and it will diminish the money spent by the 
government in the pursuit of prostitution. Many people would consider this profession a 
real nuisance but generally people are more worried about the increase in other crimes, 
such as car theft or murder.

One of the arguments in favour of the legalization of prostitution, is the fact that it will 
end with the spread of AIDS. To most people this is probably a very good argument, 
since it seems reasonable to think that if prostitution is treated as another job. This 
includes special taxes for prostitutes, restricting prostitutes to work in brothels or in 
certain zones, licenses, registration of prostitutes and government records of individual 
prostitutes and health checks <R>. All these laws will reduce the risk this sector is 
suffering everyday and maybe the threat of disease, gang rape and beatings will 
decrease significantly.

However, there are those who consider prostitution as a social ill and a form of men's 
violence against women <R>. Those who believe this would argue that sex workers are 
victims and that they need protection from the state or any other charity organization. 
Some statistics show that a high percent of sex workers get involved in it, due to have 
suffered childhood sexual abuse, or they need to work as prostitutes to support a drug 
habit, or because they are poor. According to this is, some countries like Sweden, a law 
was created in 1999, against the acquirement of sexual services and another one 
prohibiting purchase of sexual services <R>. It could be argued that this is unfair 
because sex workers have to be free to choose their ways of life, as any other worker. 
Following this belief, laws, such as the Swedish case, do not protect them from fraud, 
abuse, violence and coercion <R>.

Some of those who approve a law prohibiting prostitution would argue that the idea that 
sex workers will be treated as any other worker only instigates another way of 
committing violence against women, because this sector is not protected by any 
organization and there is a thin line between having sex in the streets and rape. They 
might argue that, there is no way of giving a precise record of the number of prostitutes 
and their clients, so as a consequence of that, it is better to prohibit it for the security of 
this women. Those against the legalization might also argue that laws such as the 
Swedish one have reduced extremely street prostitution, that is another proof of the 
effectiveness of the laws. This seems rather convincing, but now it is more difficult for 
sex workers to finds customers and they have to lower the prices, and as a consequence 
of that they will engage in unsafe sex and sexual activities they didn't usually perform 
<R>.

The creation of laws to regulate prostitution have generated a lot of controversy, and 
there are clearly strongly different points of view: on the one hand there are those who 
consider it as a way of reducing organized crime; on the other hand, some people 
believe that it is something that degrade women in general, and if we want an equal 
society we need to delete prostitution. On balance, perhaps, it seems that some laws 
(whether a prohibition or a regulation) is required. It may be that, if we want to have an 
equal society, where men and women have the same rights and opportunities, we 
probably should not avoid certain aspects, simply because they are considered taboo. It 
is true, that dealing with this issue we need to ask ourselves if this is a problem that 
concerns us all, or just something that affects homeless people... The interpretation are 
numerous, some people may argue that the legalization is too strong from a moralistic 
point of view, while others may find the case as the recognition of certain liberal aspects 
but not treated as freely as they want to be. The fact that laws in many countries, such as 
Sweden or Netherlands... are treating the issue, it is a step forward due to the point that 
prostitution was stigmatized from society and it is a great achievement to attack it from 
the perspective of public health or civil rights, than to see it as a sin or a sigh of 
decadence <R>.

 
 
 

