
The human's impact on climate has been a controversial subject since the scientific 
community pay attention to it during the last decades. Terms such as greenhouse effect was 
discovered in the early 1800s, but it has not a negative connotation since the mid-1950s, 
when it was associated with the climatic changes <R>. Recent 
catastrophes, such as the Tsunami, or the deadly consequences of the Katrina in New 
Orleans, serve to illustrate the overall tendency of deep thought about this issue. In this 
essay I am going to review the different arguments concerning the climatic change, which it 
seems to have bad consequences on the whole earth.

One of the main arguments in favour of taking measures to control the emissions of gases 
due to human activities is that it would modify the atmosphere, in the sense that the global 
temperatures will be much higher <Q> <R>. According to scientists the earth's atmosphere is composed of 
gases  such as water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide, which 
absorb heat. These gases are influenced by factors like the transparency of the greenhouse 
cover, color of the surfaces inside the green-house, and type of surfaces inside <R>. What we are dealing with is with a concentration of greenhouse 
gases, for example an increase of carbon dioxide by human activities, such as fossil fuels 
factories. Not only these activities are causing damages but also the increased agriculture, 
deforestation, landfills, industrial production...

Another important thing to debate is the fact that all these elements are contributing to the 
global warming. According to recent studies: <Q> <R>. 
This phenomenon has terrible consequences such a the melting of ice layers in the 
hemispheres which cause an increase in the sea level. The effects of those changes are 
enormeous, we can include the disappearances of islandes, the redefinition of the sea costs, 
along with the repercussion that these changes will produce on animals, plants and human 
beings.

It seems to me that an overall view of the two points that I presented before, which are the 
greenhouse effect and the global warming, are difficult to analize. The main weakness of 
both is that it is impossible to measure these phenomenons, many scientists agree that the 
data is incomplete or contradictory. Although it is true that there are climatic changes which 
make one decade different from the others, but many of these effects are the result of natural 
processes, like when the dinosaurs died and an Ice Age followed them... But there are also 
those who argued that humans are turning into another factor to take into account when we 
are questioning the effects of the climatic change. In my view, it is clear that since the 
Industrial Revolution humanity is exploring new ways of increasing the productivity of 
industries and that in long terms  it will have many consequences. Some of them will be 
positive, for example there will be many ways of producing food, new agricultural 
techniques... But it also will have some bad consequences, for example we could end up 
drying all the resources that soil has. For my part I feel that human beings will need to 
search a balance between both, on the one hand producing enough food and products but on 
the other do not forget the effects produced by certain industries and trying to substitute 
them for alternatives energies or at least do not emitting dangerous gases in bigger 
quantities.

One of the main arguments against taking measures to control the emission of gases created 
by man is that some of the factors damaging the atmosphere sometimes are done by nature 
itself. For example the eruption of volcanoes, according to Whyte <Q> <R>. 
The eruption of Tambora in the Dutch East Indies in 1815, produced a sudden global 
cooling in Europe the following year. Those who believe this would argue that these 
changes in the global temperature are part of a natural process. They also argue that the 
changes are not enough to prove that we are in danger, because they are difficult to detect 
by satellites or computers and that we need to wait to study the real effects of those 
manifestations. Recent research shows that <Q> <R>. This seems rather 
convincing but we need to know other factors, such as the volume of material thrown by the 
volcanoes, how high this material is ejected and the location of the volcano. Scientists 
agreed in the fact that eruptions affect the greenhouse effect because this material blocked 
the solar radiation.

On balance, I would maintain that although some of the causes for this global warming are 
natural it is important to be alert and try to decrease the emission of certain gases. Because 
even though there are many reasons which seem to be unknown by now, it is also clear that 
humans are an important factor changing the climate. Another weak point that I see is that 
these phenomenons such as the Tsunami or El Niño could serve as a mark to study or at 
least to prevent futute catastrophes. Maybe the precipitations in north-west Peru between 
1864 and 1891 <R> were difficult to measure but in my opinion science has 
improved a lot since then to detect possible monsoons or droughts in the future.

Another important argument in that all these changes affects the well-being of the whole 
earth, and although a climatic change is inevitable at least we should try, for many reasons. 
First of all our supplies of energy are in a critical situation. If we want to maintain the 
economic prosperity we should try to protect the environment. According to recent studies 
the year 2005 registered the highest number of natural catastrophes of the last decade, due 
to global warming uncontrolled urbanization and poverty. In 1992 a group of countries 
signed the Framework Convention on Climate Change. Its main aim <Q> <R>. The problem here was to adecuate the reduction of emissions to the 
different countries and the rich ones. The developing countries such as Chile, Turkey, Saudi 
Arabia... refuse to reduce their emissions until some help is sended. I think that it seems 
reasonable that the developed countries will need to contribute more to the reduction than 
the developing countries, because they have more financial resources. This is a big problem 
due to the fact that some countries continue to develop their industries. Another suggestion 
to reduce the emission such as the one presented by the British environment secretary in 
1994 <R> to rise the price of petrol to try to stop the growth of traffic.

The arguments presented before has some strengths and some weaknesses. As a positive 
effect is that it seems that nations are aware of the danger in which we are getting into, even 
though they do it just for economic reasons, but it is a good start at least. The weakness of 
that argumentation, I think is that the whole world have problems of agreement. Personally 
speaking the measures presented are not realistic enough to solve the core of the problem. 
For example, the suggestion of increasing the price of petrol, it will have really bad 
consequences for all. We will see an increase in the prices of all products, a dicrease in the 
salaries due to the fact of paying much attention to fuel and the private cars are impossible 
to reduce. I think that the government will need to provide alternative transports at least, if 
they want to reduce the emission of gases. But even in that case I think that they are pretty 
unrealistic.

Recent catastrophes such as Tsunami, El Niño or the Katrina in New Orleans, have 
generated a lot of discussion concerning how to control the global warming and the 
greenhouse effect, and there are clearly strongly different perspectives: on the one hand 
there are those who consider these climatic changes caused mainly by humans. These people 
argued that we are changing our climate and environment through the explotation of the 
earth and industrial practices. All these practices contribute to a global rising of the 
temperatures which will have many devastating consequences, such as droughts, rainfalls, 
the desappearance of forests, the redefinition of the cost line, the destruction of choral... On 
the other hand there are those who argue that all these phenomenons are caused by natural 
forces and are part of a process that started after the Ice Age when the dinosaurs died. And 
also there are others who are really concerned only for economic reasons. On balance, 
perhaps, I think that we need to tackle with this problem as soon as possible because if we 
do not study the different alternatives to this question we will not leave anything to save. In 
my opinion we need to change our attitudes towards this problem and save enough energy if 
we want to leave something for the future generations.


