For centuries, we as human beings are concerned with the question of life and	death. Suicide was 
considered a sin against God, even though we see massive killings in the everyday news. Euthanasia is a 
Greek word which is compounded of eu and thanatos, meaning "good death". It was used to name any serene 
natural death. Many classic writers, such as Saint Augustine or Seneca, wrote many pages, sometimes  in 
favour, others against it. According to Bok (1998:93), <Q>. While other authors, such as Seneca maintained that 
suicide was <Q>. These two points of view make us think 
about the issue of whether dealing with the role of God or the violation of one of the basic rights as human 
beings, that is the right to be free to makeour own decisions. In this essay I intend to argue that legal system 
should be changed to provide adult rational patients with a wide range of possibilities to befree to choose 
their right to die. Firstly, I personally believe that the decision to kill oneself is a private choice inwhich only 
the individuals involved in the case, such as family or doctors, can interfere. It is important to point out that 
many times family members would suffermore watching one of them living in that terrible conditions, than 
seeing he or dying in peace. However, there are those who think that nowadays medicine hasnot developed 
enough to decide whether a patient have a possibility to recover or not. Many experts plead that the prospects 
of a happy life are bigger for those who attempt to suicide and are helped, than for those with similar 
depression who never try to commit suicide. Personally speaking, I feel that if anybody interferes in this 
crucial decision, we are against individualism and we are causing suffering to a rational patient who prefers 
to be killed than a slow and horrible death. It has been argued that many patients with terminal illness were 
under great pre-ssure and could be classified as emotionally unbalanced. Many suicidologists notice that 
compassionate counseling, medical and psychological care, save many patients in those moments of doubt. 
However, I am of the opinion that as we are dealing with terminal diseases, not all pain-killers or any other 
analgesic can control the suffering. This has been the case of a patient called Jack, who had amelanoma in 
his belly. He was in constant pain and his wife, although spent many hours with him, during the night the 
analgesic administered only lasted for four hours and the nurse tried to calm him and wait 50 minutes for 
the next intra-venous shot. Moreover, I strongly feel that pain control techniques are not per-fect yet. So 
unless we obtain a better training in those techniques, we should see euthanasia as a possibility,better than to 
let a human being suffering. According to Alop (1986:154), <Q>. Secondly, I would say that when an adult patient is capable of making 
rational choices, should be free to choose between life and death, as a principle of per-sonal liberty. 
However, there are those who think that life is a gift of God's love and as a consequence of that we have to 
preserve it. If we choose euthanasia,following this idea we are interfering in God's plan for humanity. Those 
who areagainst euthanasia think that it is a murder and that they are rejecting God's authority and loving 
plan. But, I tend to believe that people who decided to die arenot doing any harm to others. As we are 
dealing with an argument of freedom, wecannot force anybody to agree with our ideas, nevertheless we are 
not harming anybody. It appears to me that we are only covering individuals that are treating this as a 
private affair and should be respected their right to die.It has been argued that if euthanasia were legalized 
many abuses will be committed and we will ended in the lost of any respect  for human life. However, I am 
ofthe opinion that killing is part of our society, for example we accept killing in self-defense, but this does 
not lead  to a massive destruction of the population  According to Rachels (1986:174), <Q>. In my opinion society is able to 
distinguish between different types of "killing", because we are human beings capable of logical 
thinking. Thirdly, I would argue that people fear the consequences of the legalization of euthanasia because 
they find it immoral. This, in my opinion, is not a good reason. It also has been argued that this issue 
creates the feeling that some patients may die prematurely or can be killed without having asked for it, as a 
resultof being misunderstood. This is the case of Helga Wanglie, who was in comasince June 1990 to 
January 1991. Her family and physicians agreed to conti-nue with the life-sustaining ventilator and feeding 
tubes because her husband said that she mentioned <Q>. On the other hand 
in the Netherlands, they have legalized voluntary assisted suicide( that iswhen the patient requests an action 
to end his or her life or that life saving treat-ment be stopped) for those with terminal illness. Furthermore, 
in the Unites States, appears a law in the state of Oregon, allowing assisted suicide for mentallycompetent 
and terminally ill adults. But the new Chief Justice, John Roberts, wants to change it because this will have 
implications across the U.S. So if we take a look at all this cases we notice that there is a real need to provide 
legalpossibilities to this sector of the population. Finally, I feel that the legal system should legalize 
euthanasia for adult rationalindividuals with terminal diseases and provide the necessary regulations in pro-
blematic cases, such as subnormal lives, innocent humans, and comatose patients. In my opinion we cannot 
be lead by our prejudices in these cases, whatwe need is to express a rational thinking.To conclude, the 
legalization of euthanasia is in my view the best way to reduce suffering to adult rational patients, to get rid 
of those obstacles, that interfere inhis right to decide as a human being, and put him or her out of misery. I 
personally believe that euthanasia could change society in a good way. Although it is clear that there will be 
some abuses, we must admit that the issue only covers a little portion of our society, so the benefits are bigger 
than the abuses. We should create a legal system capable of separate the cases of euthanasia from the cases of 
murder, just as we rely on other legal decisions. We, as human beings should not allow this tormented lives.
