	Our  present  society  seems  to  believe  that  prison' s  regime  
function. Martin, a  British  born  citizen, has  been  in  and  out  of  prison  for  the  last  
fifteen  years  due  to  his  rebellious  and  childhood  adolescence. Now  he  is  trying  
to  rebuild  a  new  life, because  prison  introduced  him  to  drugs  and  initiated  his  
life  of  crime. My  purpose  in  this  essay  is  to  show  that  prisons  are  not  very  
effective, in  termsof  either  rehabilitation  or  resettlement.	The  nation  prison  
system  should  be  changed, because  there  are  a  lot  of  problems  with  it, such  as  
overcrowding  or  simply  the  fact  that  the  majority  of  prisoners  return  to  prison, 
because  into  them  they  have  not  been  rehabilitated  enough  to  start  a  new  life. In  
my  opinion, I  think  that  the  problem  of  commit  offences  again  is  in  part  due  to  
the  prison  system  that  is  already  established, in  the  sense  that  when  offenders  are  
in  jails, they  are  not  treated  medically  to  solve  their  problems. This  is  something  
that  happens  in  the  whole  world, as  indicate  the  statistics  where  in  a  country  
such  as  Spain, where  there  are  45.000  inmates, and  the  60 %  of  them  when  are  
set  free  they  relapse  again  into  crime.	This  proves  that  the  current  system  puts  
prisoners  on  the  streets  without  being  rehabilitated. For  my  part, I  believe  that   
these  imprisoned  should  be  encouraged  when  they  are  under  rehabilitation  
programmes, and  this  will  be  made  with  looks  to  their  future  telling  them  the  
opportunities  that  a  new  life  could  bring  as  social  reintegration, can  see  again  
your  family  and  friends, to  get  a  job....However  some  people  would  argue  that  
imprisoned  people  do  not  want  to  come back  to  society, because  nowadays  jails  
are  like  mini-cities, where  they  can  obtain  all, and  all  without  worrying  about  
money. But  I  strongly  believe  that  they  will  change  all  these " privileges "  to  
obtain  the  most  important, that  it  is  FREEDOOM.	I  consider  that  one  
possible  solution, is  to  permit  the  inmates  to  spend  the  more  time  possible  with  
the  organisations, that  use  to  go  to  prisons  to  help  them. This  I  consider  that  
should  be  done  when  their  sentences  are  going  to  finish, because  this  could  bring  
them  the  opportunity  of  not  being  alone  once  they  are  out, and  so, they  will  
avoid  to  feel  alienated  from  the  rest  of  society, and  also  with  this  support  they  
will  avoid  the  temptations  of  taking  drugs, because  most  of  them  when  are  alone  
do  not  find  other  way. Another  solution  that  researchers  have  found, is  that  
prisoners  who  come  under  religious  influence  while  they  are  in  prison, do  better  
once  they  are  outside  and  have  lower  rates  of  recidivism. Until  now  this  method  
of  rehabilitation  had  been  ignored, because  was  thought  that  this  help  was  only  a  
gap  during  a  certain  period  of  time  on  their  lives, and  so  it  would  not  be  
consistent. However  this  study  has  found  that  imprisoned  people, often  seek  God  
to  help  them  in  their  life  under  imprisonment, which  is  marked  by  depression, 
guilt, and  self-contempt. John  Gartner, the  clinical  psychologist  who  headed  the  
research  team  said  that <Q>.	Personally  speaking, I  consider  that  this  method  
should  taken  into  account, because  the  effectiveness  of  this  method  of  
rehabilitation  was  put  into  evidence  comparing  the  two  groups  who  were  under  
it. Each  group  was  formed  by  190  inmates  and  one  of  this  two  groups  was  who  
was  put  into  the  rehabilitation  programme. Once  they  were  set  free, the  11 %  of  
these  who  were  under  the  programme  return  to  commit  offences, whereas  the  51 
%  of  the  total  of  these  who  refused  to  take  the  help  were  who  committed  new  
offences.	On  the  other  hand, I  consider  that  both  violent  and  
non-violent  offenders  should  receive  the  psychological  attention  necessary  for  
their  rehabilitation. Also  I  strongly  believe  that  these  prisoners  should  not  be  
given  a  parole  opportunity  while  they  are  on  therapy, and  this  I  consider  that  is  
something  that  fails  in  the  prison  system  of  the  whole  world, most  of  all  when  
it  is  permitted  to  these  offenders  that  commit  petty  thefts, because  I  consider  that  
it  is  completely  wrong  to  permit  them  to  enjoy  of  paroles.	Nevertheless, there  
are  people  that  consider  that  these  non-violent  offenders  should  be  given  paroles  
arguing  that, these  people  are  there  because  of  minor  offences  such  as  drug  
possession, petty  thefts, embezzlements....I  strongly  believe  that  this  will  be  a  
complete  mistake, because  are  these  who  do  not  stay  long, who  are  weaker  and  
fall  again  into  crime, and  on  this  way  they  will  never  be  rehabilitated . I  am  
conscious  that  this  will  mean  an  overcrowding  in  prisons, but  on  the  contrary, I  
fell  that  it  is  better  than  having  inmates  that  will  spend  their  lives  in  and  out  of  
prisons.	Actually, there  are  work  programmes  in  which  the  
imprisoned  do  prison  maintenance  such  as  laundry, food  preparation...also  there  
are  companies  that  bring  them  the  opportunity  to  have  productive  lives, as  for  
instance  is  the  case  of  the  company  Renault, that  in  Soto  del  Real, a  prison  near  
Madrid, the  prisoners  are  who  prepare  the  merchandise  for  formula  one. This  is  
very    important, because  it  makes  them  feel  useful, which  is  a  great  help  as  is  
the  psychological  attention  necessary  for  their  rehabilitation.	To  conclude, in  this  
essay  what  I  wanted  to  show  is  that  nowadays  prison  system  unfortunately  does  
not  work, as  statistics  show  it. Through  the  essay  I  have  put  forward  my  point  
of  view  of  the  prison  system, which  as  I  argued  fails  completely  because  in  spit  
of  help  the  inmates  it  seems  just  to  be  hotels, where  you  only  stay  for  a  certain  
period  of  time  in  which  you  do  not  recover.So  as  I  mentioned  before, I  consider  
that  receive  help  on  time  will  provoke  to  safe  lives. This  help  should  be  to  
change  your  behaviour  as  well  as  to  prepare  you  for  life  outside  of  four  walls. 
All  kind  of  rehabilitation  programmes  should  be  taken, because  of  something  that  
you  do  not  expect  help, could  becomes  in  the  most  effective  of  all  programmes . 
So  to  recover  whatever  kind  of  medical  programme  should  be  followed.	
