
	In  recent  decades  one  of  the  most  controversial  topics  has  been  abortion. 

There  comes  a  time  in  most  women  lives  when  an  ovum, is  fertilised  with  

sperm. This  is  nature's  first  step  to  continue  human  race. However, when  this  

process  of  life  occurs  not  always  is  desired  by  one  member  of  the  couple  or  by  

both. Some  of  the  impregnated  women  decide  not  to  allow  the  embryo  to  life  by  

having  an  abortion. In  this  essay  I  will  discuss  objectively  the  issue  of  abortion, 

analysing  the  different  perspectives  it  presents.

	To  begin  with, there  are  several  arguments  in  favour  of  abortion. In  the  

last  thirty  years  no  one  has  defended  the  right  to  abortion  in  fundamental  terms, 

as  has  done  it  Roe  V. Wade. The  philosopher  maintains  that  it  is  a  woman's  

option  to  decide, whether  give  the  right  to  terminate  her  pregnancy  or  not. Roe  

V. Wade  also  argues  that, the  embryo  during  the  first  trimester  is  a  mass  of  

relatively  undifferentiated  cells  that  exist  as  part  of  a  woman's  body. He  also  

claims  that  the  embryo  under  three  months  is  something  far  more  primitive  than  

a  frog  or  a  fish. The  polemic  arrives  in  considering  when  a  human  being, has  

the  right  to  decide  whether  an  embryo  can  life  or  not, and  why  not. To  this  

religious  people  would  argue  that, the  only  one  that  has  the  right  to  do  it  is  

God. Since  he  is  the  one  who  give  it, he  would  be  the  one  to  take  it. Another  

questions  to  consider  are  when  starts  human  life, which  is  something  that  pro  

and  anti-abortion  differ  considerately. And  if  an  embryo, can  be  consider  as  part  

of  the  mother. Or  if  they  are  separated  human  beings  from  the  moment  of  

conception.

	Pro-abortion  states  that, that  tiny  growth, that  mass  of  protoplasm, exists  as  

a  part  of  woman's  body. They  maintain  that  the  embryo  is  not  an  organism  by  

its  own. The  embryo  lives  within  the  mother's  body. No  one  can  claim  on  what  

the  owner  of  the  body  does, because  they  believe  that  the  rights  belong  only  to  

individuals, and  not  to  collectives. The  problem  with  this  argument, is  that  we  as  

humans  are  the  only  specie  that  have  moral  dilemmas  of  what  is  right  and  what  

not. So  then  is  extremely  difficult  to  determine  the  correct  option. Since  each  

individual  has  the  ability  to  decide  for  themselves  what  is  morally  acceptable.

	Furthermore  Wade  asserts  that, even  fathers  have  no  right  to  dictate  what  

she  may  do  with  her  own  body. He  argues  that  if  he  does  that, the  fundamental  

principle  of  freedom  would  be  broken. He  only  accepts  that  women  are  

responsible  when  they  have  abortions  capriciously  or  wantonly. Only  then  he  

considers  that  should  be  condemned  morally. Otherwise, it  would  brake  the  

principle  of  freedom. However, against  this  can  be  pointed  out  by  some  people  

that  the  father  should  be  consider  due  to  his  opinion  is  as  important  hers. The  

idea  of  breaking  the  principle  of  freedom, could  be  debated. People  against  

abortion  would  claim  that, by  the  privation  of  a  new  human  being  to  born  will  

be  broken  the  principle  of  human  rights.

	Against  these  ideas  there  are  the  anti-abortion. Whose  beliefs  are  in  clear  

opposition  to  pro-abortion. Whereas  the  people  who  are  in  favour  of  abortion  

state  that, a  foetus  is  not  a  human  being  and  is  part  of  woman's  body. Medical  

science  has  proven  that  the  foetus  is  biologically  separate  from  its  mother. Peter  

Smith  a  doctor  of  New  York's hospital  center, argues  that  the  development  of  

vitro  fertilisation  has  proven  that  an  embryo  can  exists  outside  of  a  female  body. 

So  then, he  affirms  that  all  these  scientific  advances  confirm  that  the  unborn  is  a  

separate  human  being. On  the  other  hand, pro-abortion  will  claim  that  this  

principle  is  not  true. They  believe  that, only  mystical  notions  of  religious  dogma  

treat  this  group  of  cells  as  constituting  a  person.

	Richard  Werner  argues  for  the  foetus  right  to  life  in  his  article "Abortion: 

The  Ontological  and  Moral  Status  of  the  Unborn" <R>. He  

says  that <Q>. To  this, pro-abortionists  will  claim  that  anything  

which  completely  lacks  consciousness, like  a  mass  of  relatively  undifferentiated  

cells, cannot  be  consider  a  human  and  also  a  pre-human.

	The  Archbishop  John  J.O'Connor  in  the  article "Catholics, Politics & 

Abortion" of  the  magazine "Commonweal"  says  that <Q>. As  O'Connor  points  out <Q> .In  addition  to  this, he  

considers  that  when  this  parents  for  whatever  reason  do  not  want  the  baby. The  

solution  will  be  to  let  that  new  life  to  continue, and  give  it  to  adoption. For  the  

reason  that  there  couples  who  cannot  have  children. Pro-abortionists, will  consider  

that  being  a  parent  is  a  profound  responsibility  and  that  apart  from  moral, or  

consciousness  a  child  demands  love. Time, effort  and  money. To  a  couple  that  do  

not  want  this  responsibility, it  will  mean  to  sacrifice  their  lives.

	Among  these  two  points  of  view, there  are  those  who  at  the  same  time  

agree  with  some  opinions  of  each  part. There  are  circumstances  and  situations  in  

which  abortions  are  consider  by  people  as  the  best  option. For  instance, if  the  

child  will  have  severe  disabilities, if  the  continuation  of  a  pregnancy  will  

cause  a  high  risk  to  the  mother  of  both...Even  some  people, would  deny  the  

chance  of  abortion  in  the  cases  mentioned. They  would  claim  that  even  though  

there  is  a  new  life.

	Another  situation, is  what  happens  when  a  woman  has  been  raped. In  

1938, the  Doctor  Alexander  Bourne  performed  an  abortion  on  a  14  year  old  girl, 

after  a  gang  of  soldiers  raped  her. The  doctor  informed  of  what  happened  and  

was  prosecuted. Under  these  extreme  circumstances, pro  and  anti-abortionists  seem  

to  agree  in  having  abortions. Most  anti-abortionists  are  not  so  drastic  and, they  

would  be  permissive  in  this  particular  situation.

	To  conclude, we  can  see  that  there  are  many  arguments  both  defending  

and  condemning  abortion. Some  of  them  deal  with  the  freedom  of  the  parents  to  

choose  their  or  her  right  of  having  or  not  family.

       Others  deal  with  the  idea  that  God  is  the  only  one  who  can  give  and  

take  life. The  arguments  of  those  who  are  in  mid  position, appear  more  

reasonable  in  terms  of  pluralism. It  could  also  be  argued  very  convincingly, that  

as  individuals  we  should  be  free  to  decide  what  is  right  and  what  not. Anyway, 

it  has  often  been  proved  that, in  the  end, women  who  want  to  have  an  abortion  

nobody  will  stop  them.
