

	Over  the  course  of  the  last  decades, the  influence  of  television  in  our  

society  has  increased. Since  the  invention  of  the  television  in  the  early  1900's, 

it  has  played  a  very  important  role  in  our  lives. Having  a  television  set  in  the  

home  has  become  essential, because  we  depend  on  it  to  inform  us  about  

current  world  news  and  to  entertain  us  with  its  programs, series, movies....

Television  is  universally  available  and  has  the  most  profound  effect  on  our  

culture. In  this  essay  I  am  going  to  review  how  can  the  influence  of  

television  affect  to  our  children  and  society  in  general.

	Nowadays  children's  greatest  exposure  to  violence  comes  from  

Television. TV  shows, movies  edited  for  television  and  video  games  expose  

young  children  to  a  level  of  violence  unimaginable  just  a  few  years  ago  as  

states  Mark  Hickey  in  the  time's  webpage <Q>. That  number  doubles  by  the  time  he  or  she  reaches  the  age  of  

eighteen. At  a  very  young  age, children  are  seeing  a  level  of  violence  that  in  

the  past  may  have  only  been  seen  by  a  few  police  officers  and  military  

personnel. Movie  violence  these  days  is  louder, bloodier  and  more  anatomically  

precise  than  before. In  a  Western  movie  of  fifty  years  ago, the  most  we  saw  

was  a   few  drops  of  blood  when  one  person  shot  another. Now  the  sights, 

sounds  and  special  effects  do  not  give  us  nothing  to  the  imagination.

	If  we  compare  the  kind  of  television  that  was  made  thirty  years  ago  

with  our  present  day, we  can  see  that  things  have  changed  considerately. In  

my  opinion, I  consider  that  in  reference  with  the  kind  of  tv  programs, cartoons  

and  series  that  are  made  now  to  kids  are  worst  than  those  which  were  made  

at  least  twenty  years  ago. I  remember  that  when  I  was  a  child  the  cartoons  

were  not  so  violent, had  sense  and  told  stories  respecting  children's  age. Now  

cartoons  are  full  of  fights  and  blood (not  so  explicit  as  in  movies). I  think  

that  all  this  is  a  pity, because  we  are  only  children  once  in  our  life. 

Nowadays  cartoon's  language  and  stories  are  very  similar  to  those  who  are   

directed  to  adults. By  exposing  children  to  this  amount  of  violence, society  is  

provoking  that  children  are  losing  very  soon  their  innocence.

	Long  term  studies  are  even  more  disturbing  in  indicating  how  

television  affects  to  our  children. Leonard  Eron, a  psychologist  of  the  

University  of  Illinois, pointed  out  in  <R>  that  

<Q>. He  concludes  that <Q>. Twenty  years  later  Eron  has  found  that  children  

who  watched  a  lot  of  hours  of  tv  violence  at  the  age  of  eight, were  

consistently  more  likely  to  commit  violent  crimes. Television  violence  affects  

young  of  all  ages, of  both  genders, at  all  socio-economic  levels  and  all  levels  

of  intelligence.

	The  fact  that  television  has  experienced  a  great  change  in  the  kind  of  

programs, is  not  only  the  fault  of  the  executives  that  have  permitted  it. It  is  

also  due  to  the  parents. I  believe  that  we  as  citizens  must  do  what  we  can  to  

reduce  the  level  of  violence, and  not  only  this  but  also  programs  such  as 

"Aquí  hay  tomate", "Shin  Chan" or "The  Simpson", which  are  emitted  in  

children's  timetable. These  kind  of  programs  a  part  from  been  violent  as  

occurs  in  some  occasions  with "The  Simpson"  instil  low  morals  or  not  morals  

at  all, as  is  the  case  of  the  gossip  ones. These  programs  can  easily  distort  

children's  view  of  the  real  world. Unfortunately, in  these  programs  is  frequent  

to  see  how "famous  people"  get  easily  great  amounts  of  money  without  

working  eight  hours  at  day  by  simply  telling  their  personal  life  or  insulting  

other  persons. In  the  case  of "Shin  Chan", is  even  worst  because  one  or  two  

years  ago  was  denounced  by  minor's  defender  the  timetable  in  which  these  

cartoons  were  emitted. They  were  denounced  precisely  for  their  high  level  of  

sexual  language. In  my  opinion  the  language  they  use  is  very  offensive, and  

more  having  in  mind  that  are  children  who  see  them. The  children  who  see  

them  go  from  five  to  twelve  years, who  learn  too  fast  the  vocabulary  and  

employ  it.

	A  1995  poll  of  children  from  ten  to  sixteen  years  of  age  in  

<R>, showed  that  children  recognise  that  what  they  see  

on  television  encourages  them  to  take  part  in  sexual  activity  too  soon, to  

show  disrespect  for  their  parents, to  lie  and  to  have  an  aggressive  behaviour. 

In  the  same  poll  was  pointed  out  that <Q>. Other  77 %  said  that  tv  shows  too  much  sex, and  

another  62%  said  sex  on  tv  and  movies  influence  to  have  sexual  relations  

when  they  are  too  young. Also  two  thirds  of  the  polled  persons,  cited  certain  

programs  featuring  disrespect  toward  their  parents.

	The  problem  with  been  exposed  to  violence  or  sex  by  television  is  that  

it  seems  not  to  have  end. What  I  mean  is  that  once  that  a  child  is  viewing  

too  many  hours  of  implicit  violence, sex  and  no  morals. Sometimes  it  can  be  

very  difficult  to  reincorporate  moral  values  and  teach  them  what  is  right  and  

what  not, due  to  some  believe  that  what  tv  says  is  true. In  my  opinion, I  think  

that  the  programs  and  series  that  are  showed  on  television  distort  a  lot  the  

real  world. In  series  or  movies  the  use  to  present  us  a  life  in  which  all  tends  

to  be  marvellous, easy  and  if  there  are  problems  they  would  immediately  been  

resolved. These  series  or  movies  also  teach  them  wrong  ideas, as  for  instance  

when  in  these  teenagers  of  sixteen  or  nineteen  years  have  sexual  relations  as  

in "Los  Serranos". When  some  teenagers  of  the  same  age  see  this  they  could  

think  that  they  also  have  to  lose  their  virginity  because  they  have  the  same  

age, and  also  they  could  think  that  it  is  normal  due  to  it  happens  in  tv. On  

the  contrary, I  believe  that  the  right  is  to  do  it  once  you  are  prepare  and  find  

the  correct  person, not  just  it  happens  on  television. In  this  example  is  clearly  

that  tv  distorts  teenagers  beliefs.

	On  the  other  hand  there  are  people  that  find  that  television  has  a  lot  

of  positive  effects  on  our  culture  and  society. They  state  in  

<R>, that  television  give  us  helpful  information, various  

forms  of  education  and  entertainment. They  claim  that <Q> such  as  the  most  recent  

happenings  around  the  world  within  seconds  as  occurred  the  fateful  dates  of  

11-S, 11-M  or  more  recently  the 7-J. Through  television  we  can  be  warned  

about  almost  anything, from  a  hurricane  approaching  as  have  happened  

recently  in  the  USA  or  the  gripe  aviar  of  Asia  and  some  countries  of  Europe. 

For  some  people  it  is  a  great  way  of  educating  society  with  the  important  

issues  that  affect  our  everyday  lives, in  topics  such  as  social, economic  or  

medical  aspects, because  there  is  always  something  new  to  be  told.

	In  general, I  agree  that  television  give  us  helpful  information  as  for  

example  the  events  that  are  occurring  outside of  our  country. Thanks  to  this  

immediate  information, we  can  escape  and  secure  our  family  and  properties  

from  a  tropical  storm. In  other  cases  television  can  distort  our  beliefs  or  

manipulate  us  as  is  the  case  of  tv  shopping. In  these  some  people  are  so  

convinced  to  buy  certain  products  such  as  make-up, because  a  celebrity  is  

presenting  it  as  for  instance  Cindy  Crowford. Some  ladies  will  buy  it  and  

wear  it  due  to  they  believe  that  it  make  them  look  like  her. A  negative  aspect  

regarding  television  is  that  it  has  became  so  important  to  our  entertainment, 

that  in  some  cases  to  stay  at  home  is  more  convenient  than  going  to  movies, 

plays, concerts  or  sport  events  because  you  can  save  money  if  you  watch  

them  broadcasted  on  television. This  a  part  from  making  us  lazier  and  

sedentary  is  provoking  in  some  cases  that  persons  become  solitary.

	To  conclude, in  this  essay  what  I  wanted to  show  is  how  television  can  

affect  our  children  and  society  in  general. To  begin  with  I  have  centred  on  

the  negative  effects  it  can  have  in  children. These  are  who  are  more  expose  

to  violence, having  in  mind  their  innocence. Also  I  have  exposed  that  precisely  

children  are  those  who  are  easily  manipulated  due  to  they  are  no  conscious  

of  how  really  is  life. Childhood  is  a  very  important  period  of  our  life  in  

which  morals  and  values  must  be  instil. Other  aspects  that  I  have  critiqued  

through  the  essay  are  the  kind  of  programs  that  now  are  directed  to  children, 

in  which  appears  a  lot  of  violence  and  most  imply  high  level  of  sexual  

language. On  the  contrary, also  I  have  mentioned  that  there  are  some  people  

that  see  television  as  another  mechanism  to  learn  new  things. These  persons  

also  agree  that  in  our  present  day  television  is  very  important  because  it 

inform  us  from  what  is  happening  in  the  world  everyday. Regarding  the  

negative  effects  that  television  can  cause  in  children, some  solutions  will  be  

that  parents  put  limits  to  what  their  children  can  and  can  not  see, but  also  see  

it  with  them  and  establish  discussions  about  the  interpretation  of  the  cartoons, 

movies...In  this  way  parents  could  see  if  certain  cartoons  or  programs  affects  

them  or  not, in  their  concepts  of  what  is  right  and  what  not.







































