								
On March 2004, French deputies, supported by 63% of the population <R>, approved a law banning the wearing of conspicuous - obvious or easily noticed- religious symbols in public primary and secondary schools. The law emerged as an attempt to maintain the laicism of the official French education, whose integrity would have theoretically been in danger by the use of these outfits.  As well as banning the hijab, which has been the focus of much of the media attention, the law also regulated the wearing of the Sikh turban, the kippa (the Jewish skullcap), the bindi (mark on Hindu woman's forehead), the nun's habit or the crucifix. In Spain, where there is no regulation on the matter nowadays, the final responsibility belongs to the headmaster of the educational centre. However, the signing of the law in the neighbouring country collaborated to bring to public light a question that had been on teachers' lips for years. Actually, although other religions apart from Catholicism are still a minority in Spain, some facts permit us infer that it would not take long for the debate to present with all his severity in our country. In fact, the increase of immigration over last decade has increased religious diversity in Spain and, this fact, has been naturally reflected in the immigrant children that receive a formal education in schools. In addition, this is a phenomenon that seems to be growing as future estimations maintain that foreigners will represent a 15% of Spanish population in 2015. Although in an opinion poll carried out on April 2004, 64% of the Spanish population declared in favour of banning religious symbols from schools, the truth is that several opinions with many different nuances are stated on the topic. Apart from the two main confronted positions (the one considering that students assisting to school should have a lay appearance and the one which, on the contrary, states that individual religious freedom should prevail over State's absence of creed) specific religions have their own particular demands or complaints. In this sense, Muslim community is the one feeling more affected as French law has been seen for many as a way of trying to avoid the use of headscarves. In addition, some Spanish catholic groups appeal to Spanish identity and tradition to demand a treat of favour for the catholic creed. Finally, it seems to be another posture that is mainly represented by educators and that has a more pragmatic perspective of the problem. So, although this body of opinion is not necessarily for the use of religious symbols, its members express their doubts as to the effectiveness that prohibition will have in the defence of laicism and claim against it in order to avoid further consequences. In this essay I intend to show the most representative positions on the subject and analyse its arguments from a personal perspective in order to evaluate the adequacy of introducing a similar law in our country.  

First of all, it is interesting to consider that the debate has its basis on the different interpretation that each side makes of the role that State should play on this topic, that is, on the very same concept of a lay system of government. On the one hand, those against the wearing of any kind of religious symbols in schools consider that, as the State is secular, students themselves should reflect this secularism. In their opinion, avoiding any distinction between pupils would permit to reach an ideal state of equality in schools. However, most religious groups maintain a different posture on the matter and express their discontent with this attitude. Although they do not deny State's secularism, they argue that the individual right of expressing their religion is over it, as expressed both in the Spanish Constitution and in the United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights and so, it should be respected in order to maintain legality. In this sense, The International Association for Religious Freedom (IARF), a society made up of members of all creeds that works for the understanding of cultures, demands that <Q>. In addition, some other voices, mainly represented by educators and intellectuals, remind that school is, in last term, a reflection of the society and a place where students should learn to mix with people of other cultures as they will have to do as adults. Considering this perspective, children should be allowed to freely express their personal beliefs which, sometimes, would imply wearing of multiple symbols, some of them, of a religious kind. In their opinion, laicism should not be reflected in "neutral" individuals but in a neutral environment where different religious beliefs may be expressed <R>.

Since Spanish constitution reflects the absence of a national creed, it seems reasonable to me that Public Institutions do not show religious symbols of any kind. However, my opinion is that this neutrality should not be extended to its individuals and that State's secularism can not be imposed on citizens. I believe that the argument in favour of the law is very weak. Firstly, I consider that "equality" between pupils will never be reached avoiding or hiding their differences but trough respect and tolerance. I strongly believe that the only way to accept other cultures without prejudices is to learn to live in harmony with them. However, forbidding the manifestation of cultural differences will make this target impossible for students. In addition, I think that there exists a logical contradiction in the pretension of imposing laicism on the students as it works as a kind of "religious" imposition. 

The most widely discussed aspects when considering the possible application of the law in Spain come from the demands or complaints of particular religious communities. On the one hand, some communities state that the application of this law will affect religions in a different degree. Actually, the IARF states that <Q>. Regarding this matter, the complexity of the subject is increased by the fact that, although French law does not mention any particular symbol, it is considered by many people to specifically target the wearing of headscarves by Muslim schoolgirls. In fact, many Muslims consider this law as a direct attack to their community. Barmin Houkbar, president of the French Muslim Council, probably collects the general feeling of this body of opinion when saying<Q>. Actually, this garment has really become the actual centre of the debate in Spain and the question goes beyond the fact of it being a religious element to take into consideration further connotations.
Although Muslim community states that headscarf stands as a symbol of purity, indeed, for many, wearing the hijab is a sign of domination of man on women. Further on, some catholic groups in Spain as the CONCAPA (Confederación Nacional Católica de Asociaciones de Padres) do not only support the banning but they also insist on distinguishing between religious symbols and the Islamic veil since they consider last one an affront against woman and an overbearing cultural mark that, in their opinion, is not present in the wearing of the kippa or crucifixes. So, in their opinion, just the wearing of the hijab should be restricted <R>. Finally, a third approach to the matter is mainly represented by educators that have expressed their concern about the consequences that prohibition could have in Muslim students. As the sociologist Esther Shabot suggests, some girls could be affected by the decision and either will stop receiving a formal education (as has shown up to be the case in France) or will be educated in private institutions where a real integration would have less possibilities to take place<R>. In addition, the approving of this measure could contribute to increase the inequalities between boys and girls within the Muslim community as only last ones would be affected by the application of this law. So, in this sense, the law could have an effect opposite to the one that has initially been looked for, and it could collaborate to create differences between genders instead of protecting women.  

In fact, I also believe that different religious communities would be affected in a distinct way. The law would be, in this sense, discriminatory, and its application would be unfair. Although I consider that society should fight strongly against gender inequalities of any kind, I am not for prohibition in this particular case. Firstly, I doubt that the State or other religious communities have the right to give significance to the symbols that other communities use. Secondly, children should be the benefited from this law and I strongly believe that we should be extremely cautious in considering the possible prejudicial consequence of the law. In this sense, from my point of view, isolation of girls and of Muslim students will just enhance the problem. Although I can not give a final solution to the problem, my own opinion is that a law regulating the wearing of religious symbols should not be used to put an end to this conflict and that other solutions should be looked for. 

On the other hand, some Catholic groups have also exposed particular demands. In fact, they consider that Catholic symbols should not be prohibited as they are a part of the Spanish and European identity just in the same way that Greek Philosophy or Roman Law are. In their opinion, this banning would represent the lost of a common identity to Spanish and European people and History. I think that this is a very weak argument. In the first place, I strongly believe that the concept of Europe and of Spain should evolve in order to adapt to the particularities of their habitants and, although no doubt Catholicism is part of Spanish History and Identity, there are many other religions and cultures that form part of it too. Also, I consider that if a decision of this nature should be adopted it must affect all religions without exceptions to avoid what would be an inadmissible discrimination and a clear affront to Spanish Constitution.  

To sum up, although a great majority of the Spanish population seems to be in favour of putting in practice a law similar to the one approved in France, I am personally against it and I consider that a lot of different nuances must be considered before that. Firstly,  it seems to me that Muslim community is right when saying that French law is a measure adopted to solve a problem different from the wearing of religious symbols and more related to the specific use of the hijab, that is interpreted by many citizens as an offensive garment that implies discriminatory gender stereotypes. If this is the case, I think that banning the use of the veil could not be the best solution to the problem as it could develop in a radicalization of postures and an isolation of Muslim communities. Secondly, prohibiting students to wear all religious symbols would eliminate, as a consequence, the possibility of converting school in an intercultural space where citizens of different religions could coexist and learn to live in an environment that would be the representation of their future society. To end up, equality should be the main aim when considering the application of the law and my opinion is that, in this case, law would probably be discriminatory as it will not affect religious communities in the same way.      







