Over the last decades, and especially since 11 September 2001, the presence 
of terrorism has become more and more evident around the world and has 
reached public opinion. Actually, in a September 2004 report, the United States 
Air Force Institute for National Security Studies concluded that <Q>. However, 
and despite the power and frequency of these groups, there are no established 
patterns to solve this kind of conflicts. First, because of the complexity of the 
international situation that turns armed groups into cells potentially belonging to 
an international terrorist network and second because of the wide variety of 
conflicts and its different implications. Thus, the general dilemma nowadays is 
between engaging or not engaging with armed groups. For example, in Spain, 
ETA's recent announcement of a breakdown and the positive Government 
attitude towards negotiation (last June Congress approved negotiation provided 
that ETA stops violence), have re-opened social debate about dialogue as a 
way to end with terrorism. However, Spanish population seems divided over this 
question. On the one hand, significant bodies of opinion understand armed or 
judicial response as the unique possible solution to a problem that has been 
present in Spanish society since 1952. On the other hand, a 55% of the 
population seems favourable to the possibility of holding talks in order to get an 
agreement that will put an end to the Basque Country conflict.
In this essay, I am trying to prove that negotiating with a terrorist group is a 
desirable proceeding and that, despite the moral problems that it entails, carries 
positive consequences in the road to peace. 
First of all, I think that the use of dialogue shows great advantages in 
comparison with other possible solutions to the conflict. It seems to me that the 
most important aim when dealing with a terrorist group, despite socio-political 
requests or demands of any other sort, is putting an end to violence. Regarding 
this subject, dialogue provides many benefits. First, because it avoids the 
increasing of violence and suffering that an armed response has in the local 
populations who are the victims more directly affected by the conflict. That is the 
case, for example, of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict where since last weave of 
violence started, in 2000, and after breaking up the process of dialogue reached 
in 1993, terrorist groups have carried out more than 1.500 attacks and 
thousands of Palestinians have been affected directly or indirectly by the 
subsequent repression.
On the other hand, because it collaborates to make a deeper and wider analysis 
of the situation. It must be considered that most conflicts have its origins in very 
complex matters that can not be trivialized and will not disappear by the use of 
force or the dissolution of the terrorist group. This is, for example, what happens 
in Spain where the situation as a whole involves not only a terrorist group but 
also conflicting political approaches, violence and tension shown in several 
ways and where the position of the local population covers a great variety of 
opinions. I think that, in this case, avoiding dialogue would be a poor solution 
and would reveal in time as a useless measure, whereas holding talks with ETA 
could help both sides to add objectivity to the situation and to reduce the 
importance of other questions of a more subjective kind. 
However, I do not forget that for third parties to a violent conflict, the behaviour 
of armed groups raises some very serious and sensitive questions. One of the 
most frequent arguments used against dialogue is that to engage with armed 
groups is to legitimize violence or give credibility to unreasonable or non-
negotiable demands. Nevertheless, although I understand this opinion I do not 
share it and, furthermore, my own view is that there are several reasons that 
could help us to consider it from a different perspective. On the one hand, I 
consider that it must be assumed that terrorists are a side of the conflict and, as 
such, their opinion, although "unreasonable" from our point of view, shall be 
listened and analysed under an objective perspective, which does not mean 
that all their claims should be accepted. 
On the other hand, and what is more important, from my point of view solutions 
found to the conflict through a peace process will always be more legitimate 
than those imposed by force, so the conflict will always have less probabilities 
to re-open.
In my opinion, one of the main arguments for dialogue is that opening a peace 
process undermines authority to the use of violence and, at the end, weaks 
armed groups position. First of all, because it forces both sides to engage in a 
peaceful negotiation. Next, because experience has shown that conceding to 
terrorists a sort of "political" space to channel their demands can cause an 
internal transformation of the group. As Williams and Ricigliano point out "an 
intervener can influence the way the group sees itself, can affect internal 
dynamics, and can change how the group relates to the conflict" . Finally, I 
also consider important the effect that holding talks with armed groups can have 
upon terrorist supporters that many times feel oppressed or persecuted: 
personally speaking, I feel that the will to cooperate will bring new ways of 
attaining aims until violence is proved to be useless.
Another usual argument maintained against dialogue is that negotiating should 
be restricted to armed groups that show adherence to international 
humanitarian laws. However, and although this is a desirable situation, my 
opinion is that this is not very realistic and, in fact, can strengthen hard lines by 
starting a vicious circle where none of the sides wants to modify its stance. 
Moreover, it seems to me that peace processes main objective should be to 
obtain and maintain this peaceful situation so I personally believe that there is 
no reason why it should be considered as a necessary pre-condition to start 
dialogue. I do understand, however, that armed groups must show a real 
engagement in the peace process and that this shall be made clear through 
concrete attitudes and goodwill gestures. 
Finally, I tend to believe that finding a negotiated solution with all sides of the 
conflict is the best way to avoid the return of violence as it guarantees both 
sides engagement to maintain the new situation and shares the responsibilities 
and the benefits of the peace process eliminating the sense of constant 
confrontation. A solution of this kind only can take place through dialogue as it 
requires an accurate understanding of the situation as a whole. 
To end up with, I would like to remember that experience in many countries has 
shown that internal armed conflicts frequently end through dialogue and political 
negotiations. For example, Joaquín Villalobos points out that in El Salvador the 
international community's negotiation with the Farabundo Martí National 
Liberation Front (FMLN) "facilitated the hegemony of moderate groups and 
leaders." This in turn made the FMLN more willing and able to participate in 
political negotiations. This is also the example of Ireland and even conflicts such 
as the Angolan civil war, which ended with the effective defeat of the armed 
group, <Q>. On the other hand, it 
appears to me that history also shows us that a constant use of the force as a 
way to end with the problem of terrorism only hides or delays the conflict and, 
sometimes, makes the situation even worse as is the case of Palestine or 
Chechen. 
I admit that this is a delicate and complex issue as it varies widely depending on 
the context and on the other hand sparks off violent controversy and creates 
many moral conflicts and concerns derived from dialoguing with groups that use 
violence as an instrument of pressure. However, I would argue that these 
concerns do not contradict, and should not stop, efforts to develop a new, more 
nuanced understanding of armed groups and the opportunities connected with 
their engagement in political dialogue. 



