In 1989 the European 
Parliament approved a Resolution requiring from its members a bigger effort to put an 
end to the traditional state of marginality concerning transsexual community. To this 
aim, several measures were recommended to UE State Members and affording 
appropriate medical treatments was among them. However, and although there are some 
European countries that include SRS (Surgical Reassignment Surgery) as a benefit of 
their medical care system, very few legislative changes have been made since. In Spain, 
SRS was legalized in 1983 and in 1987 the Supreme Court recognized the right of 
transsexual people to carry out this operation taking into consideration that choosing 
own gender is an option that should prevail over natural sex. Although medical 
treatments for transsexuals are not covered by Spanish Public Health System, regional 
competence in this matter allowed Andalusia to finance Surgical Reassignment Surgery 
for citizens censed in February 1998. Encouraged by last August Spanish government 
pronouncement expressing its intention to modify the current legislation and despite 
recent PSOE's declarations that stated that SRS would not be included in 2006 Spanish 
National Budget, transsexual community has lately raised its voice in order to demand 
an early solution to its problem. However, many voices (represented for example, but 
not only, by religious groups) express their disgust with the possible acceptance of this 
measure. Both sides differ in a wide variety of aspects that embrace not only 
economical and moral reasons but even if transsexuality should be consider or not as a 
proper illness. However, third voices, mainly represented by scientific community, 
show more cautious and express the necessity of analysing each individual situation and 
of establishing a careful regulation of the treatments to protect patient's health. The aim 
of this essay is to discuss different views over this topic and to analyse the arguments 
maintained by each group of opinion to justify their posture.

To start with, it shall be considered that one of the most controversial aspects when 
considering the topic of transsexuality is of a moral kind. In this sense, while 
transsexual community considers their problem as a physical illness (they have a sexual 
appearance that does not match with their actual gender), other voices regard it as a 
psychiatric disease, an amoral wish or just a caprice.  Obviously, this conceptual 
divergence also implies a different posture towards the treatment that transsexuals 
should be submitted to. Transsexuals consider that the only solution is to adequate their 
physical appearance to their own self-conception, either through hormonal therapy, 
through SRS or through a combination of both. They also claim that, being 
transsexuality a serious illness, State should afford the cost of its treatment. In this sense, 
Juana Ramos, President of the organization "Transexualia" and working to get rights to 
transsexual community since 1989, remarks that: <Q> <R>. 
She also points out that the success of therapy is exceedingly high, and that many 
transsexual people go on to live successful lives. However, some other voices, strongly 
represented by the Catholic Church, consider that this is an anti-natural proceeding and 
that transsexuals are perturbed persons that should take psychological advice in order to 
learn how to change their gender perception. Finally, those who believe that sexual 
change is just a caprice, consider that each individual should pay for his/her treatment 
and that National Health System has no obligation to cover it. For example, it is 
common to read comments in personal opinion forums expressing that as Public Health 
neither has money to pay for dentists or plastic surgery, SRS should not be publicly 
afforded <R>.

Although it is no easy to analyse arguments found in moral precepts (which, in this case, 
also makes difficult to decide the origins and the best treatment of transsexuality), we 
can at least try to infer if gender dysphoria is a disease of such an extreme seriousness 
as transsexual community maintains. Actually, Juana Ramos argumentation is 
corroborated by the so-called 50% Rule: In 1981 it was estimated that about 50% of 
transsexual persons did not survive the malady, ending up dead by the age of 30, usually 
by their own hand. Taking these facts into account, it should be admitted that SRS can 
not be considered as a caprice and that, in consequence, it can not be placed at the same 
level that dental care or plastic surgery. However, it should be regarded, whatever its 
treatment been, as a problem that deserves prior response as for some patients is a life or 
death matter. 

One of the biggest arguments wielded against public SRS financing is of economical 
order and considers the impact that it would have on Spanish National Budget. Some 
people, as Juan Gonzalez, President of the New Christians Platform, maintain that it 
would be a burden for social system <R>. However, transsexual 
community argue that paying taxes gives them the right to have a suitable medical care. 
On the one hand, it is true that treatment is long and expensive (completing SRS takes a 
minimum of two ages and includes previous hormonal and psychological care). On the 
other hand, this argument seems to be a bit weak if we consider the number of patients 
that will be benefited from it. Although the exact number of transsexuals in any given 
population will probably never be accurately known, the best current estimate is one per 
30,000. In Spain, Sánchez-Monges, coordinator of the "Carlos Haya" Andalusian 
hospital, makes an estimation of 2.000 persons affected by the disease <R>. In addition, she also points out that only a 60% of them would be 
candidate to SRS. The rest would be accustomed to their genitals and will not expect 
surgery but only hormonal treatment, which is relatively cheap. Referring to facts, it 
seems that affording SRS and hormonal therapy would not have a relevant repercussion 
on Health System.

Other arguments concerning this topic are focused on the benefits or prejudices that 
patients would obtain from the treatment. In this sense, groups that state against 
financing hormonal therapy and SRS, usually argue that some people could change their 
opinion once they have undergone surgery. Although there are several restrictions in 
order to avoid this situation (it is compulsory to take psychological advice before being 
operated, it is not desirable to start hormonal treatment before 18 and it is illegal to 
carry out surgery before reaching on the age of majority) medical community admits 
that there exists an actual risk of repentance. Actually, and although doctors of 
Andalusian Health System have only recorded two cases of repentance (and luckily 
none of them had already arrived to the operating room), the report of the European 
"Ethics and Transsexuality" association, points out that the possible reason of such a 
low rate of cases is due to the short amount of time in which these operations have been 
taking place <R>.  Actually, this appears to be a very 
powerful aspect to be taken into consideration. However, it can not work as a definitive 
argument against public financing as experts also point out that the risk of repentance 
increases in private clinics as some of them omit previous psychological and hormonal 
therapies. In fact, a possible conclusion is that each individual situation should be 
carefully considered and that some limits should be established when considering 
treatment.
 
Also in relation with patient's health, some experts call attention on the necessity of 
stopping hormonal auto-medication, a frequent practice due to the impossibility of 
having access to public treatment. Actually, the possible secondary effects of hormonal 
therapy are wide, being the origin of cardiovascular and hepatic affections, and they 
increase dramatically when therapy is not under medical control. Sánchez-Monges 
<R> claims that this problem would end if transsexual treatment 
were covered by National Insurance. The argument is important as it deals with 
patient's health, especially if we consider that auto-medication makes it impossible to 
follow the patients psychologically which, considering the high rate of suicides of this 
community seems to be a fundamental aim to obtain. However, it is also true some other 
solutions to this problem could be found as increasing the control of hormone pills. 

To end up with, public financing of transsexual treatment shows up as a very conflictive 
subject. Many arguments are brought into the discussion and they embrace aspects so 
wide as the moral perception of the phenomena, economical repercussion on Health 
System and patient's health. It seems difficult to bring extreme positions near, as they 
found its basis in moral precepts. Apparently, some postures against it do not take into 
account the real gravity of the illness. However, the immense percentage of suicides 
within the persons affected appears to make it necessary to consider gender dysphoria as 
a National Health problem. On the other hand, facts also seem to point out the existence 
of a certain legislative vagueness. In this sense, the regulation of the treatment as a 
whole (increasing the vigilance on private hospitals and drugs distribution, re-
considering the period of previous psychological treatment before going on surgery and 
studying carefully each individual case) could benefit the patients affected. In any case, 
lowering the number of deceases should be the priority and voices in favour of public 
financing become strong considering that SRS achieves this aim.
  
