       The growth in the uptake of Information and Communications Technology, 
including the Internet, has lead to the appearance of new forms of crime. Electronic Crime 
(E-crime, from now on) is presented as a new form of business that will require a 
fundamental paradigm shift in policing. This 'new business' is characterised by new forms 
of crime, a far broader scope and scale of offending and victimisation, and challenging 
technical and legal complexities. In this essay I'll deal with the nature of the computer 
crime problem and the challenges it presents and how it might be encountered during 
prevention, detection and investigation.According to the Australian Institute of 
Criminology, the term Electronic Crime <Q>. The 
Information and Communications Technology (ICT) says that <Q>.While many crimes will be old style crimes simply involving the use of ICT, 
new forms of crime will also emerge. In addition, the barriers to committing crime, that is 
electronic crime, have dropped significantly and criminals are becoming even younger. It 
seems to me that people who would not dream of stealing or maliciously damaging other 
people's property in real life have no qualms or second thoughts in relation to the 
opportunities and challenges presented by the Internet. I think that Police will also need to 
be very selective about the range of E-crime incidents. Moreover, the costs of investigation 
will be high and there will be a need to respond in a much shorter time frame, increasing 
pressure on already stretched resources.This rapid increase in the use of computer 
technology has facilitated many countries' participation in the emerging Information 
Economy but also increases their exposure to electronic crime issues. Maybe Technology is 
becoming more and more pervasive in our society. The use of the Internet will continue to 
evolve and grow in many areas including Electronic commerce, online banking,drug stores 
with prescription services,health care services and records and Education. Of particular 
relevance to those interested in crime issues is the potential for huge increases in fraud. 
Fraud (including forgery and false pretences) has already been found to be the most 
expensive crime in many countries. According to the Australasian Police Ministers' 
Council (APMC) at its meeting in Perth on 12 July 2000, <Q>. The APMC recognised that the possibilities 
for misuse of electronic technologies made this an issue which needed to be addressed 
immediately. And they're probably right: if fraudulent infrastructures continue growing, 
coordinating and perfectioning their ways, the problem could become unstoppable. Identity 
theft, in particular, is one of the worst forms of E-crime, which can facilitate a range of 
fraud offences, and can occasion a lot of trouble to victims. Technology has weakened the 
integrity of many identifiers currently in use - birth certificates can be reproduced using 
desktop publishing software; counterfeit passports and counterfeit smartcards can be 
purchased over the Internet. Easier access to these false identifiers facilitates a range of 
fraudulent behaviour, including tax evasion, immigration malpractice, fraudulent claims 
against social security and health insurance companies. That's how they operate, and 
there's no effective way to fight against it.In addition, a recent study found that 12 times 
more credit card fraud occurred on Internet transactions than on conventional sales <R>. Another global report emanating from the UK found 
that E-commerce firms were reporting up to 25% of online transactions as fraudulent, with 
an average of 5%. Stolen credit cards and identity theft made up the majority of frauds 
perpetrated on the Internet - 28% and 20% respectively <R>. That shows how 
computers have become an integral part of our way of life. As I indicated, the barriers to 
participating in criminal activity appear to be dropping and there is also a proliferation of 
individuals who are capable of countering IT security measures. For instance, it was 
believed a few years ago that only several thousand people in the US had the capabilities to 
launch a cyber-attack. Today, it is estimated that there are 17 million such people in the US 
alone <R>. But the machinery can't be stopped, as long as there's 
no law to restrain the use of that technology; and we mustn't forget that it would attempt to 
the individual's right of free property.Another example: a student known variously as K2 
and Kelly exposed a glaring security breach in the Australian GST Assist website. Simply 
by typing in a string of numbers, K2 was able to access the records of more than 20,000 
GST-registered providers, including their bank details. He alerted more than 17,000 of the 
providers by emailing their confidential details to them. K2 rejected the notion he was a 
hacker, saying it involved no cracking but was a wide open security flaw <R>. Here's the proof that reveals that evil intentions are not contained into technology but 
into the individual.Global connectivity means that havoc can occur, in a very short 
timeframe, throughout the world. The abuse of computer technology may threaten national 
security, public safety and community well-being, and devastate the lives of affected 
individuals; a long list of traditional offending has been greatly facilitated by technology 
advancements such as mobile telephony, the Internet and encryption <R>. I think that a global 
problem like this should be easier to remove if the principal authorities of each zone work 
together. But on the other side, the cost of time and money of that organisation would be 
considerable, as I pointed before.Furthermore, new criminal opportunities or new crimes 
have been created by the development of electronic media. Denial of service attacks, 
viruses, unauthorised entry, information tampering, cyber-stalking, spamming, page-
jacking, dumping or phone-napping, and computer damage are relatively new types of 
offending or undesirable behaviour that did not exist in the pre-computing environment. As 
it's known, the world of Internet Media is always in expansion and I find very difficult to 
control each new application that is born month after month.E-crime is variable in its 
manifestations, so it is difficult to discuss in terms of aggregate incidence and impact. This 
inability to accurately define the nature of the problem is not helped by the fact that 
currently no statistics on computer crime are maintained by police. Unfortunately, 
definitive information on the present extent and impact of electronic crime in the world is 
not available. A significant amount of this crime is simply not reported and some may not 
even be detected. It seems to me that this non-reporting is in part because of a great 
reluctance to notify incidents to law enforcement authorities so as to avoid any potentially 
adverse impact on consumer confidence or share prices, or perhaps because of a lack of 
confidence in law enforcement to deal with such issues in a timely or effective 
way.Indications are that electronic crimes are more than likely on the increase, in 
consonance with the youth element in cities. The editorial director with the CSI is reported 
as saying <Q> <R>. In summary, 
we are clearly witnessing exponential growth in the uptake of technology and the use of the 
Internet. It is reasonable to assume that such growth will be accompanied by an increase in 
the incidence of electronic crime. There have been predictions that online crime will grow 
by as much as 1,000 percent over the next four years <R>. 
One of the biggest policy issues for government will be how to deal with the anonymity of 
the Internet. Indeed, the US Electronic Frontier report <R> states that 
<Q>. The UK has also demonstrated its concern 
relating to anonymity and a range of other issues through the creation of the Regulatory and 
Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) which, after much controversy, received royal assent in 
July 2000. The FBI's Carnivore system has also been the subject of much criticism and 
debate. In Australia, dealing with the anonymity issue will involve, inter alia, developing 
new response capabilities in close cooperation with Internet Service Providers (ISP's).A 
major issue which also needs to be dealt with, and which was discussed by the Model 
Criminal Code Officers Committee <R> is the issue of jurisdiction. 
This matter is particularly problematic given the potential global reach or borderless nature 
of electronic crime. For instance, I find easy to thwart a criminal investigation or 
prosecution at the present time by routing your transactions through a number of countries 
(particularly those with weaker law enforcement regimes or those without relevant treaty 
arrangements). We are also seeing the emergence of data havens, such as the Principality of 
Sealand, an island fortress 10 km off the English coast, where anyone who wants to keep a 
website or other data out of the reach of national governments can rent space on the 
Sealand servers <R>.As the United Nations (UN) points out <Q> <R>.Jurisdiction presents as a very real issue in the 
area of electronic crime and will require new responses from law enforcement particularly 
when one considers the need for a much more rapid response. That makes you think of the 
legal solutions which could establish well of what is a criminal action released by 
Internet.To date, international harmonisation of the legal categories and definitions of 
computer crime has been proposed by the UN, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD) and the Council of Europe <R>. However, before we 
even contemplate harmonisation, it will be necessary to get many (if not all) countries to 
agree to legislate in this area. One US survey found that of 52 nations surveyed, 33 did not 
even have laws which dealt with computer crime (AFP 2000).It is true that many e-crimes 
of the future will be traditional crimes simply perpetrated via or facilitated through the use 
of ICT. However, as indicated above, there are characteristics of electronic crime, such as 
anonymity, speed, the ease with which one can participate in unlawful behaviour and the 
potential for large scale victimisation that will present new and unique challenges. The 
ability to move quickly to preserve data and to get around encryption will also require new 
responses.E-crime is truly a global issue and there will be an unprecedented need for 
international coordination and cooperation. A response to electronic crime will involve 
much stronger partnerships with the private sector and other law enforcement and related 
agencies (such as defence and intelligence) and a major thrust of addressing the issue must 
be one of prevention, otherwise policing will simply be overwhelmed. I find also important 
to understand the nature of the problem and to address the significant underreporting of the 
phenomenon.
