
       Pornography has been part of human experience since people first come to 
realize of their sexuality and their different human shapes. According to an actual 
definition provided by the University of Birmingham, <Q> <R>. But Pornography is not an 
actual matter of discussion: for centuries, the production of sexually explicit materials 
has existed, as the ancient figures illustrate (the "Venus of Willendorf", some pictures 
from the Baroque and the Renaissance, and so on). Eventually, with the invention of the 
printing press, however, sexually explicit material could be made and distributed more 
efficiently. Printed pornography became more widely accepted, but people could also 
find X-rated movie houses if they wanted to see motion pictures. A bit later, people 
began to watch pornographic movies in the privacy of their own homes, and eventually, 
advances in computer technology in the 1990s radically changed how pornography was 
produced and consumed. Many of those involved in the pornography industry began to 
set up websites on the Internet that provided a variety of attractions, including 
photographs, sex videos for sale, and—most recently—amateur videos. Predictably, the 
proliferation of sexually explicit material on the Internet has led to the debate about 
whether pornography should be illegal or not. In this essay I will discuss about if 
Pornography, as it is known these days, must be censored or not.


       First of all, we find the point of view of those who are in favour of the free 
distribution of Pornography as if it is an industry as respectable as any other. Pro-sex 
feminists, adult sex industry workers, pornography consumers, and civil libertarians 
argue that censoring pornography would do more harm than good. Federal judge Sara 
Barker argues, for example, that "to deny free speech in order to engineer social change 
in the name of accomplishing a greater good for one sector of our society erodes the 
freedoms of all". We can include people who think that pornography helps people learn 
about their bodies and demystifies sex. As Kathleen Sullivan, Stanford University Law 
professor puts it, <Q>. But is that so? It's a fact that most of the 
pornography which can be found in Internet, or in magazines, it is destined to men. 
Take an example: Melissa Monet is a writer, producer, and director of adult films. 
Monet argues that jobs in the pornography industry are satisfying, safe, and lucrative. 
She dispels the notion that those involved in making pornography are abused, claiming 
that she was never forced to do anything she didn't want to do. She contends that the 
sex-crazed characters in pornographic films are not accurate representations of the 
average people who play them. This testimony shows that pornography has a well-
performed structure, as many other respectable industries all-over the world, although it 
is not less true that many women, especially young girls, are introduced by force in this 
underworld.

       
       Remember that phenomenon which took place in 1972, when the infamous 
production Deep Throat was released? Directed by Gerard Damiano and starred by 
Linda Lovelace and Harry Reems, the polemic film lay the foundations of the actual 
porno movies... But everything was not perfect for all the participants involved: Linda 
Marchiano, the actress who performed the role of Linda Lovelace in that film, made an 
account of her experiences for the pornographic industry in her book Ordeal. Marchiano 
describes being coerced into participating in pornography by means of mental abuse, 
beatings, and threats against herself and her family. She insists that although she 
appears to be enjoying herself in Deep Throat, she was in fact brutalized and forced to 
do things she didn't want to. Other examples of these harsh situations can be 
exemplified in many films, most of them based on real facts, like Boogie Nights <R> or The People VS. Larry Flint <R>, where 
serious viewpoints about the industry of pornography can be appreciated. 
       
       
       The other side of the coin is represented by the people who disagree about 
pornography's effects on society. They maintain that it leads to violence against 
women, child molestation, and the breakdown of the family. Catharine MacKinnon, 
Law professor at Harvard University, claims that <Q>. These people argue that pornography is somekind of perversion and that it is 
an addiction that leads to other crimes including drugs, murder, rape, abduction, child 
molestation, and incest. Yet after hearing from every media source that pornography is 
child porn, torture, degradation and murder, it is easy to get many people to say that 
"pornography", whatever it is, is degrading and should be banned. Indeed, 
criminologists and clinical workers are largely in agreement that pornography is not 
causal to sex crime and abuse. It is not new that morality is used most of the times as 
the main anti-porn argument. 


       In addition, there is one theme which creates controversial any time is referred: 
Child Pornography, a phenomenon more easily denounced than defined. According to 
Andrew Vachss <Q> <R>. 
Photographs, videotapes or any other means of recording and reproducing children 
engaged in sex (whether with adults, other children, objects or animals) is considered a 
crime, and pornographers or paedophiles which traffic with the innocence of children 
must be treated as criminals as well. The psychological, as well as the physical damage 
that they can occasion to their victims, is certainly a very hard argument against 
pornography.

       Whether we like to accept it or not, pornography is deeply established in our 
social behaviour: it is a very daily habit to see magazines such as Playboy or Penthouse 
in kiosks and press stands, and a common practice which nobody wants to admit is the 
use of Internet to have an easy access to those products. Some statistics provided by the 
web-page Internet Filter Review (2005) show that the real size of the pornographic 
industry take up about $57 billions. Porn revenue is larger than all combined revenues 
of all professional football, baseball and basketball franchises, and that the Child 
Pornography generates about $3 billions annually. 

       The conclusion of this essay is that pornography presents different levels of 
legality, which go from the very common sold of magazines, videotapes and 
merchandising to the traffic of child pornography and that kind of illegal business. It is 
a very extended practice to eradicate it, and a source of benefits for those who work to 
expand it. Maybe the frontier between a correct approximation to what is considered 
'pornographic' can be delivered, but there will always be a sector who may not be 
satisfied with it. And in that case, the only practical solution would be to establish a 
more strict control to what is sold, and to the kind of people who consume it. 


