       According to Hugo Francisco Bauzá in his book El mito del héroe. 
Morfología y semántica de la figura heroica (2005), <Q>. If we accept that 
statement as if it were true, we can think about historical examples which support it: the 
crucifixion of Jesus inspired many other heroic figures as Juana de Arco, Gardel, el 
"Che" Guevara or the singer Gilda. Of course they all were human beings with their 
defects and their virtues, but the concept of what they did became so magnificent that 
they transcend History and the World. Otto Rank (a disciple of Sigmund Freud) once 
said that <Q>, which may explain why we find 
the concept of Heroism so fascinating. Some people will argue that "real" heroes do 
exist and that they are between us: firemen, doctors, policemen... Even those good 
parents who take care of their children, trying to give them all kind of facilities to make 
their lifes less hard and rough. But I think the concept of Hero takes parts of both point 
of views. Is not so that we are always trying to do the correct things, and we usually 
look out for models which inspire us the best we could do? I'll focus this essay in the 
analysis of some different approaches to the heroic figure, paying special attention to 
the fiction type one (superheroes of comic, movies and literature in general) to conclude 
if the motivations of heroism in general has something to do in our present society. 

       First of all I will talk about those great literary heroes, who often inspired the 
other ones. One of the most famous is Robin Hood, created by the illustrator and writer 
Howard Pyle (USA, 1853-1911) in his novel The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood. 
Mr. Pyle was a studious of medieval legends, and found inspiration in many popular 
British and Scottish songs to create this funny adventurer, always represented as a great 
Saxon archer who is able to shoot arrows with a legendary precision. He leads from the 
Sherwood Woods a gang of good-heart thieves who stole from the rich to give to the 
poor. A lot of elements are mixed here: Courtly Love, honour (a theme inspired by the 
legends of King Arthur and Camelot) and some sense of humour as well. In cinema, the 
Robin Hood character was played by actors such as Douglas Fairbanks, Errol Flynn or 
Kevin Costner. I think that it is an interesting heroic figure because of its social 
denunciations and the fight between different social classes, questions which persists in 
our time. And, as a curiosity, this popular figure inspired DC Comics to create one of 
his most unforgettable characters ever: the emerald archer, Green Arrow, whose stories 
continue the tradition of incarnate the voice of the people against the oppressive 
governments. 
       But not all the heroes fight for his comrades and his country. Another well-
known character is Tarzan, King of the Jungle, created by Edgard Rice Burroughs 
(1875-1950) in the novel Tarzan of the Apes (1912). Tarzan's human family dies in a 
tragic accident when he was just a child, and then he is raised by the gorilla Kala as if he 
were one more of the pack. After his first encounter with other human beings in years, 
he returns to England to regain his lost name -sir John Clayton- and fortune. But his 
heart will always stay in the Jungle, where he had fantastic adventures until he becomes 
the true ruler of that savage land. In this case, the enemy of the hero results to be his 
own tribe, the human being, who is presented as a greedy creature that kills other 
species for its surviving and that doesn't accept other cultures -even if they come from 
the animal kingdom. The hero is a loner this time, with his heart divided into his 
authentic roots and the way of life in which he has been bred. Although this model was 
followed by other naturalists writers such as J.R.R. Tolkien (in his popular universe of 
The Lord of the Rings, principally), I think that nowadays people tends to industrialize 
their existence, and that way of thinking may be a little old-fashioned. In any case, the 
concept of that duality between civilization and wilderness remains and surely it will be 
exploited in time.
       With the arrival of the cinema advances and the plots of Hollywood writers, 
some new concepts of heroism arise. Heirs from literary sources, the power of the image 
-which is said that is worth of a thousand words- gives a deeper dimension to the 
stereotypes, and more complexity by mixing the sound effects with the visual impact. 
One of the most successful figures is one called the anti-hero. It is the natural antithesis 
of the classical hero: he doesn't have good manners, uses to be politically incorrect and 
acts in a very selfish way. Although it existed since the picaresc novel times, it was with 
the cinema that became so popular these days. It is probably one of my favourites. 
Detective Rick in Casablanca (role played by Humphrey Bogart), Dirty Harry (Don 
Siegel, 1971, interpreted by Clint Eastwood) or the most recent cases of Hartigan, Marv 
and Dwight of Sin City (Robert Rodriguez, 2005) are good examples. In some way, it is 
the seductive stuff of revealing against rules which motivates them, and I find it a 
common characteristic of the human being. I must add that I consider that the violence 
performed by many of these characters is, in many cases, unnecessary; it is just fiction 
and it should remain like that. Movies of black genre, action or thrillers are classified by 
ages, although many teenagers disobey this and learn the hard way that reality doesn't 
have anything to do with fiction. That's why many people consider the figure of the 
anti-hero a dangerous inspiration for youngsters and a bad influence in general. 

       Let's take the example of the immortal character created by Ian Fleming, James 
Bond. It was interpreted by six different actors through the years: Sean Connery, 
George Lazenby, Roger Moore, Timothy Dalton, Pierce Brosnan and the future Daniel 
Craig, and it counts with twenty-two movies since 1962. Bond is a spy from the MI6 
division of the British Intelligent Service, a cold gunman who seduces every woman he 
encounters in his missions. His attitude has been defined as 'sexist' by some minorities, 
although in each new adventure the same clichés are repeated. Attending to the number 
of affaires he has had, or the number of murders he commits, we could affirm Bond is 
an anti-hero by nature, cold, distant, but captivating and charming at the same time. His 
films have been always the perfect mixture of present time and the fantasy of espionage 
of past years. I consider the Bond saga one of the most entertaining in its genre, and his 
kind of anti-heroism a realistic reflect of political intrigues and vendettas between 
countries since the era of the most important wars. 
       And finally I'll talk about the most idealized type of heroism ever conceived: the 
superheroes of comics. A superhero is a fictional character with powers and abilities 
which exceed the human condition; these figures often are seconded by villains and 
threats bigger and worst each time. Most of them were created in USA, and the most 
important editorials of these characters are DC and Marvel Comics. 

       The first superhero -the one who initiated these topics- is Superman, created by 
Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster in 1938 for the National Editorial (after, DC Comics). 
Superman was sent to the Earth because of the destruction of his natal planet, Krypton, 
and was adopted by a typical American family of Kansas, Jonathan and Martha Kent. 
Since his childhood he began to manifest extraordinary abilities such as super-speed and 
flight, great strength or X-Ray vision. When he grew up he moved to the futuristic city 
of Metropolis, under the secret identity of the journalist Clark Kent, where he made his 
first public appearances as the legendary Man of Steel. It is considered more than a 
mere comic character -a real symbol of the American Way of Life together with other 
characters as Mickey Mouse or Betty Boop-.  Not in vain, the event of his apparent 
"death" is the best-sold ever in the comic's industry. After him, a new icon made his 
premiere just one year later: Batman, created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger for the same 
company in 1939. Often positioned as the opposite of Superman, Batman is the alter 
ego of millionaire Bruce Wayne, who witnessed the murder of his parents when he was 
just a child. He vowed to eradicate crime from the corrupted Gotham City, by means of 
transform himself into a dark vigilante with no other power than his formidable mind 
and a lot of fantastic gadgets. To close the Trinity, DC presented the famous female 
heroine Wonder Woman, created by William Moulton Marston in 1940. Princess Diana 
of the Amazon tribe of Paradise Island came to the patriarchal society to break the 
chains of the male superiority upon women, with a lot of mythological elements in her 
adventures. These three characters soon became icons -as well as the rest of the DC 
pantheon- and established what today is considered the Golden Age of the Comic 
Heroes. I find these figures the prototypes of idealization, with too many unreal 
elements in detriment of the realistic ones, so it makes difficult to identify oneself with 
them. But of course their series are certainly entertaining.

       The other side of the coin is represented by Marvel Comics, "the House of 
Ideas", whose initiatives -with the legendary team performed by Stan Lee and Jack 
Kirby in their files- created a whole new universe of superheroes as never seen before.  
Their philosophy was clear: superheroes with "super-problems". And so, at the 
beginning of the sixties decade, made their appearance the Fantastic Four, the 
Avengers, Spiderman or the Uncanny X-Men, but they won't be the last ones. To 
exemplify more clearly the comparison with DC, I have chosen the favourite Marvel 
character of the fans, the Amazing Spiderman. Created in 1962 by Stan Lee and Steve 
Ditko, Spiderman is the paradigm of the alienated teenager who has learned that with 
great power there is also great responsibility. When a radioactive spider stings young 
Peter Parker, he became an incredible superhero... But also multiplied his disgraces in 
the same proportion. He had to fight not only against impossible villains but also against 
the constant humiliations of his friends, his rivals and his boss (the irascible J.J. 
Jameson) and got a lot of misunderstandings with girls, too. In my opinion, the stories 
of Spiderman have a lot of realistic elements (to begin with, he lives in a real city: New 
York), but it is his spirit (he has suffered a lot, but he is always joking and never gives 
up) what gives him a great personality. Other characters of the company who know well 
what being rejected is can be the Incredible Hulk, the emerald giant which merged in 
the middle of an experiment with the Gamma Bomb, or the X-Men, a group of outlaw 
mutants which are discriminated by society just because they are not normal. But the 
nature of the heroism in the Marvel Universe is precisely that: the fact that, although the 
entire world fears and hates them, the heroes must always defend them, whatever the 
cost. And I think it provides a lot of humanity to their tales. 

       As I pointed at the beginning of this essay, I think that many people -specially 
young and impressive ones- need a model, a mirror to calibrate their steps and to make 
sure they are doing things for the better. The inspiration of heroes, being them real or 
imaginary, is a good focus for hope and a way of appreciate our humanity as the most 
powerful of our gifts. 
