
	The institution of popular jury has been one of the most controversial legal 
questions in Spain since it was definitely established in 1995 to try some criminal 
matters. It is well known that in other countries, as USA or France, jury trial has 
become an entrenched feature of the legal procedure for a long time, and there 
exists a clear social attachment to it. In some others, as England, defendants have 
even the right to elect for trial by jury in some cases. In Spain, the system has 
been an intermittent presence in our historical constitutionalism, and the debate 
between its supporters and its critics has not ceased from the moment it was 
approved again. According to Organic Law 5/1995, only some crimes can be tried 
before a jury in our country: Those committed by civil servants while performing 
their public duties, crimes against the environment, embezzlement of public funds 
and offences against the person (murder, parricide, homicide...). In this cases 
Justice allows for a jury trial. This jury is made up of nine citizens, who are 
randomly selected and are not justice professionals, assisted by a professional 
lawyer. There are no great legal requirements to become a jury member, apart 
from knowing how to read and write and being older than 18. And of course it is 
mandatory for jurors to perform this public duty: they will have to listen to the 
dispute, evaluate the evidences presented and decide on the facts. The jury only 
judges guilt or innocence, regardless the punishment attached to the crime, being 
the judge who sets the actual penalty. It is reasonable to think that this kind of 
laws are thought to be a preventive, popular device against oppression by the 
official institutions. Actually, Thomas Jefferson <R> described the citizen 
jury as "the only anchor by which a government can be held to the principles of 
its constitution". But does the institution of popular jury fulfil the expectations of 
justice and rigour that these laws create on society? In this essay I intend to show 
how, in my opinion and despite its laudable basis, the system of trial by jury 
proves itself ineffective and unfair and why it should be consequently suppressed.


	It seems to me that there is a main, obvious argument that supports the 
need for popular jury's removal. This is my belief that members of this kind of 
juries are not prepared enough to decide and judge about legal and penal 
issues. How could they be if they are chosen almost randomly among the 
population? Some people feel that the few days that these jurors spend with 
their presiding judge discussing and learning about the case are sufficient. This 
is what an anonymous citizen that performed the role of juror wrote to a legal 
forum in Internet: <Q> <R>.

Personally speaking, I believe that this kind of opinions are not based on a 
reliable criterion, since a non professional juror appears to be unable to judge 
his own preparation for a job that he completely ignores, even when he has the 
impression of having progressed a lot. It seems difficult to learn everything 
about Law in a few days. May two or three meetings substitute the knowledge 
and experience of a qualified professional? Even if the jurors are provided with 
enough legal information about the case, we must also take into account the 
need for an adequate psychological and emotional preparation to perform this 
duty.


	There exists another important reason why I think the members of a 
popular jury are more likely to fail to come to a fair verdict in a court trial. In my 
opinion, as inexperienced jurors, they may be easily influenced by mass media 
and public opinion. In most cases, the juror will have already heard about the 
case, since he or she must be neighbour of the city where the crime has been 
committed to become a member of the jury. That is still more likely to happen in 
countries like Spain, where Justice resorts to popular juries in some well-known 
and debated cases of severe crimes against the person. The jurors may 
consequently be prejudiced for or against the criminal, according to what they 
have read and heard before. The jury may also be tempted to judge based on 
personal feelings rather than on facts. As a consequence, they might be less 
impartial than they should. We all know the "case of Mijas" a sad example that 
illustrates this influence: on November 9th 1999, a popular jury found Dolores 
Vazquez guilty for the murder of Rocío Wanninkhof. Some months ago, Justice 
found the true murderer on the basis of irrefutable evidence. The case had 
become from its beginning a highly topical subject in TV, radio and newspapers.


	Of course, it is possible to argue that professional judges are also people 
living within society, and thus they will be as well influenced by those same 
factors. That is true, but also a simplification of the facts that involves an 
underestimation of the task of judges. I would maintain that the point that makes 
the difference is that judges posses the data and the acquaintance with the 
legal system to counteract those influences. Does it mean that judges are 
completely free of error? Of course they are not. But as qualified judges they 
are expected to doubt what they read, view or listen in the media, since they 
know that media reports tend to present an unbalanced view of the case. And 
even when those accounts might influence their evaluation of the facts of the 
case, at least they will always be able to contrast them with what the Law 
states, and act accordingly.


	I have just considered so far the disadvantages that trials by jury present 
with regard to the accuracy of the process and to the right of the defendant to be 
judged impartially. But I think that this system may also be against the interests of 
jurors themselves. Firstly, jurors must be obviously excused from their job for jury 
service. It is true that they are economically compensated. But there is probably 
no compensation for the time they will be removed from their daily lives. It has to 
be pointed out that the duration of a trial cannot be determined a priori, so the 
juror does not know how many days he will be occupied in it. Secondly, we have 
the question of protection. While a judge usually enjoys special measures of 
protection against criminals in his everyday life, a juror does not. Perhaps he will 
be safe while the trial lasts. But afterwards he will be vulnerable against a possible 
revenge on him. It is significant that most terrorism sympathisers judged in the 
Basque Country by means of a popular jury were declared innocent. Some people 
would argue that these jurors also sympathises with terrorists. But statistics show 
that the vast majority of Basque citizens are against terrorism. There must be thus 
other reason that explains these favourable verdicts. And this is probably that 
jurors are afraid of the possible reprisals against them. Steve J. Hess, a member 
of the Asociation J. William Fulbright <R>, explains how the Basque nationalist Otegui was acquitted of the murder of 
two "ertzainas" in 1997 on the ground that he lacked criminal intent, and 
recognizes that the easiest explanation is fear of reprisal among jurors.


	It appears to me that there is still another negative consequence that the 
duty of juror may have on the people undertaking it. And this is the heavy 
responsibility that the non professional members of a jury will have to bear after 
the trial, both if they declare the defendant innocent or guilty. The feelings will be 
logically even worse in the former case. My own view is that not everybody is 
tough enough to face the responsibility for sending a person to prison (or to death 
in some countries), even if everybody is convinced of his or her culpability. It is 
thus not surprising that many people reject or try to evade this duty to participate 
in a jury when they consider the consequences they could suffer from it. It could 
be claimed, of course, that the jury system is an expression of the democratic right 
of the citizen to participate in the public affairs, and consequently that he must 
assume this responsibility as a honour. But democracy does not imply that 
citizens hold power themselves: citizens participate in democracy through his 
vote, choosing their skilled representatives. In the same way, citizens should not 
administer justice themselves, but demand that judges are qualified professionals, 
prepared to take on the consequences of a job that they have voluntarily chosen.   


	To sum up, there are a lot of reasons that support the suppression of 
popular juries, most of them on the basis that professional judges are much 
more prepared and experienced than juries to decide on criminal issues. In the 
one hand, trials by jury lead to a lack of impartiality, since jurors do not 
necessarily possess a wide knowledge about Law and they may be easily 
influenced by external sources or by their feelings. In the other hand, jurors 
themselves can be negatively affected by the experience. I must conclude that, 
no matter how commendable intentions support the institution of jury, the 
democratization of Justice involves the guarantee of a fair, brief and accurate 
trial for everybody, not the need for the ordinary man in the street to develop a 
duty that he does not have and does not want to do. 



















  ...now that I have gone through the experience I am completely for popular juries. I think ... 
that everything is very carefully studied, and that the time spent working is enough for the 
members of the jury so that they can be aware of the slightest detail (My translation).
 
 
 
 
