
	In a pioneer Spanish law to regulate prostitution, the Regional 
Government of Catalonia has recently elaborated a decree ordering all brothels 
to be registered and stipulating opening hours and sanitary conditions. This 
decree is in accordance with the current trend throughout Europe towards 
legalizing the practice of prostitution. In fact, among the fifteen member states 
of the EU, only Ireland and Sweden define prostitution as a crime in their Penal 
Codes, while the rest do not consider prostitution as a punishable act. The 
arguments given by governments and citizens, both for and against legalization, 
are varied and based on both facts and speculation. It is true that the debate 
generally looks at two opposing approaches: that of legalizing on the one hand 
and that of criminalizing or making it illegal on the other. Nevertheless, these 
common definitions of legalization and criminalization may be extremely broad 
and do not accurately reflect the actual spectrum of opinions. Properly 
speaking, the term legalization is usually restricted to a system of criminal 
regulation and government control of prostitutes, where only certain prostitutes 
are given licenses which permit them to work in specific ways <R>. On the other 
side, those who support criminalization want to put a definite end to the practice 
of prostitution, but while some of them claim for the prosecution of the customer 
and the prostitute (i.e. some Christian communities), some others would just 
punish the former. Finally, an intermediate point of view towards the question, 
typically represented by prostitutes themselves, is that of decriminalization. This 
means the removal of laws against consensual adult sexual activity, both in 
commercial and non-commercial contexts, without the existence of any kind of 
state regulation. This essay will consider and analyze the main arguments that 
are frequently provided to support each of these attitudes towards the desirable 
legal status of prostitution.

       Due to the complex nature of the problem, there are many factors that 
come into play in the debate: economical interests, sanitary concerns, gender 
issues, humanitarian principles... Among them, the moral consideration of 
prostitution itself lies at the very basis of the discussion. A social sector, whose 
standard-bearers have been a number of feminist organizations, would claim 
that prostitution is an act of violence (particularly against women and girls) 
directly linked to the exploitation of poor and marginalized individuals whose 
main advocate should be the state. Some others add that offering money in 
exchange for money is depraved and condemn sex without love. On the 
contrary, some others argue that prostitution is nothing but a service industry 
like any other, in which people exchange skills for money or other reward. 
Under this scope, the so called "sex-workers" are the natural response to a 
need that society demands, and consequently a necessary practice. Finally, 
there are other people who claim for a more pragmatic attitude toward the 
problem: they maintain that, independently of moral principles, government 
should have no right to decide how adults conduct their sexual lives, even when 
an exchange of money is involved. For these people, prohibiting relations 
between consenting adults always imply going beyond the limits of adult 
privacy.

       Consequently, while for some people legalizing prostitution would mean 
to remove the stigma attached to it (as it would establish the position of sex 
worker and thereby elevate their status and acceptability), some others argue 
that it would somehow represent the legitimization of a human right's violation. 
In fact, both arguments seem to make sense to a certain extent. On the one 
hand, it is theoretically reasonable to argue that the decision of exchanging 
money for sex is a personal choice open to adult people under the philosophy of 
a free, democratic society. However, the contrary attitude is perhaps more 
realistic in the sense that it takes into account what is in most cases the harsh, 
real state of affairs of this "profession". The truth is that most people in 
prostitution do not make a rational choice to enter it. Janice G. Raymond, from 
the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women <R> states that <Q>. Under this 
scope, the conclusion seems to be that legalization would only be legitimate if 
the government provides a range of real alternatives to prostitution. This can 
only mean the guarantee for everyone to access social care services and a job 
that provides an adequate living. It would be then when it could be argued that a 
prostitute has consented to her or his work. However, it is obvious that this 
solution would leave apart foreign prostitutes that reside illegally in the country.

       There are also deep differences regarding the influence that legalization 
is supposed to have on prostitutes themselves. Susana Quintana, a Catalonian 
government spokeswoman <R>, state that they <Q>. According to this 
approach, legalized sexual encounters would happen then within controlled 
environments that would provide safety for prostitutes, avoiding problems of 
criminality and diseases transmission. Moreover, prostitutes would no longer 
have to fear any retribution from authorities and would not need the protection 
of pimps. Their opponents argue, firstly, that the criminal element will always be 
associated to prostitution (being an illicit practice itself), no matter how 
controlled it is, and that legalization has actually increased criminality as well as 
the number of women trafficked. Secondly, that legalization would require 
health checks for prostitutes but not for their customers, what is a form of 
discrimination and would not protect them from sexual disease <R>. Thirdly, 
they consider that legalization is actually a gift to pimps, whose labour as 
authorized sex traffickers would be then legitimated. Finally, those who support 
decriminalization do not trust an effective state regulation of the prostitutes, but 
neither the prohibition of their activities. They believe that most prostitutes do 
not want to register or undergo health checks. Their opinion is that legalization 
would drive prostitutes to operate illegally and underground, so it could be even 
counterproductive for them.


       Once again, the argument exposed by the supporters of legalization is 
rather convincing in abstract terms. If the State could fully control the practice of 
prostitution and avoid illegal operations, it would seem that the benefits for 
prostitutes with regard to safety and health would be huge. The mentioned 
counter arguments by their opponents do not even appear to be very 
persuasive. Probably, a thorough analysis of the problem and an adequate 
investment would allow the government to solve these concrete problems of 
health (i.e. fully guaranteeing the use of condom and setting health checks for 
costumers) and pimping (i.e. assuring professional security inside brothels). 
Nevertheless, there is still certain weakness in the argument for legalization. 
The fact is that many statistics seem to prove, as most supporters of 
decriminalization state, that most prostitutes choose to operate underground. 
For example, in Germany, according to several studies <R> <Q>. The reasons 
appear to be some conditions derived from the current strategies of legalization. 
For example, the income of legitimate prostitutes would be taxable and they 
would be restricted to work in brothels, under the control of new legal "sex 
businessmen". The conclusion that can be aroused is that the complete 
monitoring of prostitutes can only be developed with their collaboration, and this 
collaboration seems possible just if the sex-workers consider that they obtain 
real advantages from legalization, and an appreciable improvement in their 
social position. 


       Society is also a part affected by the problem of prostitution, and all 
sectors of opinion use it in their arguments. Those in favour of legalization find 
his most persuasive argument here: like any other worker, prostitutes would 
provide substantial tax revenue and become a productive sector instead of a 
financial charge to society. Although their statement seems unquestionable, 
contrary sectors realistically point out that this is one of the main reasons why 
prostitutes prefer to keep their activities under the limits of the submerged 
economy. They also reject the hypothesis that legalization would reduce the 
incidence of the spread of sexual diseases from infected prostitutes, despite the 
fact that prostitutes would not be able to work until they had received a clean bill 
of health. They state that health checks would be useless, since some sexually 
transmitted diseases like HIV/AIDS cannot be detected in a reasonably short 
time after exposure. However, though their objection seems logical, perhaps 
this is a relatively minor problem that could be sorted out by means of medical 
research and investment in adequate methods of analysis. Finally, another 
problem of prostitution for society is its visibility to those that find it objectionable 
and for those for whom it should be shielded (namely the children). Regulation 
would provide a means for controlling the areas where brothels can be located, 
and this will probably reduce the street traffic of prostitution and render it less 
visible. While those who advocate prohibition agree about this point, it is 
decriminalization supporters who respond that brothels would be then restricted 
to industrial areas of dubious safety for prostitutes. This could be considered a 
contradictory argument, since it seems evident that no matter where brothels 
were located, prostitutes would always be more protected than in a system in 
which prostitutes work clandestinely or uncontrolled. 

       In conclusion, this essay has presented three main different approaches 
to the question of the legal condition of prostitution, each of them proposing a 
different solution: prohibition, legalization and decriminalization. While the moral 
consideration of this controversial practice lies at the very root of the debate, 
each sector of opinion exposes a great variety of arguments, dealing with 
several fields that would be affected by legalization: safety, health, economy, 
criminality... Although some of these arguments are based on statistics coming 
from countries where legalization has already been put into practice, many of 
them are still based on speculation, and yet all of them are said to look for the 
good of prostitutes. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether these three 
attitudes may be reconcilable in any point in order to find a realistic solution. It 
would seem that it could be useful to leave extreme attitudes in order to open a 
debate about the specific strategies of legalization. If society intends to act for 
the interests of sex-workers, probably it should listen first to the people who are 
really involved in this practice and who may suffer from it: that is, prostitutes 
themselves. Consequently, governments could reconsider their proposals of 
legalization on the basis of the recognition of the demands of prostitutes and 
their right to autonomy and self-regulation, particularly guaranteeing that every 
people that works in prostitution does it freely and by her or his own choice.






 
 
 
 


6

