Teaching human sexuality has been a very controversial topic in recent years. Some 
people think that teaching human sexuality in schools encourages teenagers to have 
sexual intercourses. But in the other hand, usually parents feel uncomfortable talking 
with their children about sexuality. So that, people have reach an agreement about 
teaching human sexuality in schools but still does exist controversy about what kind of  
approach should be taken on account to teach human sexuality: Abstinence-only, 
comprehensive education or something in between?

The existence of different approaches depend on whether parents want to provide their 
children a conservative or  liberal education, it is a very subjective matter to choose one 
approach instead of another. Therefore, there are innumerable ways to approach this 
topic, in the sense that almost exist one different argument for each parent. Due to this 
fact, I have taken on account the arguments that retreat the various opinions on this 
topic in a broader way. In this essay I will discuss a variety of possible approaches for 
eduation in human sexuality in schools.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of the abstinence-only approach. 
Usually this point of view is defended by religious and conservative people, who think 
that human sexuality must be explained from a moral and spiritual perspective. Pope 
John Paul II presented the following premise which is a reflection of this conservative 
perspective:  <Q>. Pointing out that 
contemporary culture <Q> <R>.
People who support this approach believe that an educational program in human 
sexuality shouldbe focused on the child's understanding of  sexuality as something 
beyond the physical or biological aspect. To size it up, the program must be developed 
ina religious, spiritual ad moral context.

People who undergirds abstinence-only program consider that teaching contraception 
methods to teenagers is a way of encouraging them to have sexual intercourses. 
Therefore, they prohibit the mention of condoms or another type of contraception 
method. They believe that by means of instiling sexual abstinence they will prevent 
unwanted pregnancy, AIDs and STDs. They maintain that abstinence should last until 
marriage because otherwise it could have negative results for the people who  decide to 
have sexual intercourses physically and psychologically speacking. This approach is 
also supported by Bush Administration's: <Q> <R>.

The problem with this argument is that human sexuality not only concerns to a moral 
aspect. So that, if you omit the physicall or biological aspect, you are depriving 
teenagers to receive information that is necessary in order to prevent unwanted 
preganncy, STDs,etc. In case they decide to have sexual intercourses.
By contrast, there are various arguments in favour of a comprehensive education in 
human sexuality. This perspective is supported by the majority of American adults:
<Q> <R>.
People who is in favour of this approach think that the best way of protecting their 
children from pregnancy, STDs, etc. is to provide them all kind of information about 
human sexuality from the use of contraceptives to abstinence. <Q> <R>.

It could be argued that comprehensive education in human sexuality put teenagers in a 
very risky situation. In the sense that the most of them are inmature people and they still 
are not capable of taking decisions by themselves that could carry serious consequences 
in case of having sex.  

Moreover, there are people who believe that the fact of providing all this information to 
teenagers is a way of encouraging them to have sex. Which is not totally truthfull and a 
reasonable argument because, for example, teenagers are taught in History about Civil 
War, 1st World War,etc and it does not encourages them to create a war. Although they 
still are inmature, they are capable of taking reasonable decisions.

Some people feel that, although the contents of the educational programs in human 
sexuality are important, there is also one thing which is essential in order to give 
children an appropiate education and is that the teachers must be prepared to teach this 
topic. <Q> <R>.

It is also very important that teachers maintain their religious believes or moral values 
separated from their labour as educators. This is to say, they have to answer their 
students objectively in order to not interfere with students's believes. This approach 
lead teachers the optionality of chosing the contents of the program, which in a way is 
better because they are trained to develop this labour. 

But in the other hand, some people could think that the responsability of educating 
children is of their parents. In that case the most appropiate is that the poarents could 
have the possibility of revising the contents of the educational programs in human 
sexuality due to they have the right of educatinbg their children with their own  moral 
values, ethics, etc.
The problem of this argument is that, it would be extremely difficult to make a 
conciliation between the values of all the parents to create a program that combine all of 
them.

In conclusion, we can see that there are many arguments defending different approaches 
to teach human sexuality in schools. Some of them  deal with abstinence-only, others 
deal with comprehensive education and others with the importance of having trainied 
teachers to teach this area to children and adolescents. The arguments in favour od 
comprehensive education appear more reasonable because it combines the information 
about the roles that play contraceptives and abstinence in sexuality. Although itshould 
be interesting if people also give importance to teachers training and not only to the 
contents of the educational programs.














Bibliography


E.W.T.N.(Eternal World Television Network),1990. "Guidelines for education in 
human sexuality in schools."(Pennsylvania Catholic Conference).http://www.ewtn.com.
Date accessed: 20/11/2005.

E.J.H.S.(Electronic Journal of Human Sexuality), 2004. " Schools Need Sexuality 
Education Programs."(Western Connecticut State University). http://www.ejhs.org. 
Date accessed: 14/11/2005.

Siecus Public Policy Office, 2005. "Fact sheet". http://www.siecus.org/policy.
Date accessed: 17/11/2005.

Siecus Public Policy Office, 2004. "Public support for comprehensive sexuality 
education".http://www.siecus.org/policy.Date accessed: 17/11/2005.

U.C.S.F. , 2005. "Should we teach only abstinence in sexuality education?". 
http://www.caps.ecsf.edu/abstinence.html. Date accessed: 14/11/2005.


