It seems quite ironical that people consider that our present society has evolved notably 
from the XVIII century, when British people were condemned to slavery in the colonies of 
North America, because in the XXI century still exists a similar form of slavery, human 
trafficking. <Q> <R>. In this essay I intend to argue why is human trafficking still exists in the 
XXI century and I will try to provide some possible solutions to reduce this branch of 
organized crime.First of all, I would like to give a description of what human trafficking is. 
The wording is contained in Article 3 of the Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish 
trafficking in people in the Palermo Convention (2000): <Q> <R>. From my point of view, the basic 
cause of the existence of human trafficking is the huge demand of people from poor 
countries who need desperately to enter in wealth countries like the United States where 
they are "supposed" to earn money to maintain their families in their origin countries, I said 
"supposed" because people are attracted to this new form of slavery by fake advertisements 
that make the promise of a well-paid job as sales clerk, nanny, waitress, domestic worker, 
or factory worker. To continue the enslavement, traffickers secure falsified visas and 
passports. Upon arrival in the country of destination, traffickers confiscate the travel 
documents, leaving the victims helpless to abandon the country or seek assistance. They are 
forced into prostitution or other forms of sexual exploitation through physical, 
psychological or sexual abuse. <Q> <R>. In my opinion, this modern form of slavery produces 
numerous consequences to the trafficked people and to their origin country. Since in the 
origin country all the information about the wealth countries is not the real one. People of 
these poor countries think that in wealth countries they will have a chance to live in comfort 
and also help their families in their origin country by means of working as sales clerks, 
waitress, etc. But it is not that easy, because traffickers take profit from the ignoranceand 
desperate situation of these people to attract them into this kind of slavery by false promises 
about a completely new and best life. But what really happens is that the trafficked people 
are deprived of their freedom and of any kind of human right. They are reduced to objects 
from which the traffickers obtain large profits by abusing of these helpless people. On the 
other hand, some people think that trafficked people are in possession of their fate as they 
know in what they are been involved establishing an economical deal with the traffickers. 
This opinion is supported by Ronald Skeldon who reports that <Q> <R>. From my point of view, 
this argument is just an unsuccessful attempt to convince the wealth countries that they are 
not responsible of this issue. To enter in a criminal organization by means of being a slave 
could not be a possibility for people to earn money. It could be that they "enter voluntarily" 
in criminal organizations but I cannot believe that they really know what carries that 
decision, their own enslavement. Maybe they reach an agreement with the trafficker to help 
them to enter into a wealth country in return for an economical compensation, <Q> <R>, so that, this deal does not 
include their enslavement, they are manipulated from the beginning of the deal in the 
benefit of the traffickers.I find quite difficult to give a solution to reduce or eliminate the 
human trafficking because it depends on the approaches that are chosen to determine the 
strategies to solve this problem. When the problem of trafficking is defined as a moral, 
criminal or migration problem, there is a tendency to chose solutions that involve control or 
punishment but if it is defined as a labour or human rights issue, the solution of the problem 
will be a positive one. I would like to explain both views one by one:The first way to 
understand the problem, which involves control and punishment, is the most extended 
between people. Personally speaking, I am agree with it but it is well-known that human 
trafficking is one of the biggest branches of the organized crime (followed by gun 
trafficking) it would be impossible to eliminate it without the co-operation of every country 
in the world that suffer this unacceptable situation, both the wealth and the poor countries. I 
think it is necessary to reach an agreement between those countries to take under control 
this insidious situation. In my opinion, if these countries reach an agreement, they should 
follow few points to come to a solution. I believe that the most important stages to find a 
good solution are:Firstly, to provide real information about the wealth countries in the poor 
countries. There is a wrong conception about the life in the wealth countries, people think 
that all the people live in comfort, and that there are not difficulties to survive. They do not 
really know how tough are going to be their lives in those wealth countries.They are weak 
for the traffickers criminal behaviour, therefore in a way the government of the poor 
countries are responsible of the increasing of human trafficking.Secondly, it should be 
helpful that both the wealth and the poor countries take steps to control the immigration and 
emigration respectively. This is the transportation is the first stage of the human trafficking, 
if both countries are capable of establishing a control network it should be easier to 
dismantle numerous criminal organizations.    Thirdly, I strongly believe that the biggest 
stage to take on account is the redistribution of the riches between countries, I do not mean 
to establish an equivalent quantity of riches between all the countries in the world, I think it 
could be very helpful that the wealth countries eliminate the international debts of the poor 
countries and give them resources to create a new and stronger economy to maintain their 
population.Some people probably feel that these three stages to reduce the human 
trafficking problem could be practically impossible to follow because it requires a great 
effort. I believe that a huge problem as human trafficking is, needs a huge effort to solve 
it.Finally, I would like to say that I hope that this essay has clarified what human trafficking 
is and what solutions could be provided to solve this problem. Although it seems quite 
difficult but I strongly believe that with co-operation it could be done.To conclude, I have 
explained what is human trafficking and how is it developing nowadays and I have tried to 
develop a reasonable solution to this branch of crime, but I am afraid that probably it will 
not be applied in the future because it is a tough way to follow, although it could be the best 
for all the population of poor countries.
