Is it morally acceptable for young adults to engage in the sex act prior to marriage? This 
is a question that has been under debate for a long time. Approval of premarital sex also 
increased between 1943 and 1999, from 12 percent to 73 percent among young women, 
and from 40 percent to 79 percent among young men, according to a report published in 
the September issue of the Review of General Psychology <R>. The 
traditional Christian moral maintains that sexual intercourse is to be reserved for 
marriage and procreation, while more liberal people think that it should not be only part 
of marriage, and even there are others who are against of marriage at all (but not against 
sex), or against sex, but not marriage. In this essay, I will present the different opinions 
held in relation to this topic.

The main position against sexual intercourse before marriage is the one of the Christian 
Catholic Church. For them, sex before marriage is sex without commitment and sex that 
is not aimed to procreation, so it is equal to sin. They define this premarital relations as 
situations that <Q> <R>. The Biblical condemnation of sexual relations before or outside marriage is 
abundantly clear. Adultery, or sexual intercourse between married women or married 
men and someone other than their marital partners, is condemned as a serious sin. <Q> <R>.. Here Paul admonishes those who had sexual 
urges to satisfy them by entering not into temporary relationships <R> but into permanent marital relationships. Such 
relationships are to be characterized by <Q> <R>. Besides other churches and religions (such as Judaism, Islamism, 
American Baptists, Letter-day saints...) have a similar attitude to premarital sex, 
naming it sinful and irresponsible. The fact that you can get involuntarily pregnant or 
catch a sexually transmitted disease is something that should also be taken into account 
and something that people against premarital sex use to support their viewpoint. This 
idea of premarital sex being not good for the relationships is also illustrated by research, 
which shows that couples who engage in pre-marital sex are more likely in the long-
term to divorce, although there is not necessarily a direct causal link <R>

This seems to be a rather logical position, having into account Christian beliefs and the 
ideas proposed by other religions, so the main problem here is faith. If someone is a 
believer then the argumentation will be clear for him or for her, but people not agreeing 
with that religion might find it difficult to justify his or her behaviour according to these 
rules. The idea of sin seems very subjective, but on the other hand, it can be seen as 
something irresponsible or leading to divorce, so if it is accepted as not being a good 
consequence, then the argument becomes stronger, and it might help to convince more 
people.

There are also people who think that having sex prior to marriage is not bad, but a 
matter of free choice. If a couple love each other, and they have a commitment, and 
want to get married, they think that it is acceptable that they make love even before the 
actual marriage takes place, as a way to express their love for each other. Even this is 
thought in a context with no marriage purpose, due to the increase of couples living 
together nowadays, as if they were married but without being legally or religiously so. 
This might be said to be a matter of non-marital sex, instead of pre-marital, and it is one 
of the main things that church is having to deal with now, and that some people want it 
to accept: <Q> <R>. In this context cohabitation is seen like a trying period, to see if 
the couple is sexually compatible or not. <Q> <R>.

This might be seen as something not very mature, because supposedly, if someone is in 
love he or she knows that that is true. Anyway most people might be said to be afraid of 
showing their feelings, so it may be a way to express themselves, and also to see if they 
can live together (cohabitation is something that breaks up a lot of marriages as well). 
This should be considered as a valid reason for premarital sex, and even more so for 
people not believing in marriage, for whom this is not a matter of discussion at all.

Also pre-marital sex is acceptable only within certain limits: Consent (Rape is seen as 
totally unacceptable); age (paedophilia is despised in society generally; very large age 
gaps between partners are considered odd); availability (a sexual partner ought ideally 
to be single or "separated"); free (there is still a stigma attached to prostitution); stability 
(high levels of promiscuity and "bed-hopping" are frowned upon); safety (sex ought to 
be "safe" (barrier methods of contraception should be used) given the risk of disease and 
pregnancy); Meaning (it is best if sex is "meaningful" in the context of a relationship, 
unless it is a one-night-stand or infidelity, in which case it ought to be meaningless!) 
<R>.

Another point in favour of premarital sex is the fact that some people see sex as 
"experience", and this way it seems that it should be better to have as many different 
experiences in life as possible. Pre-marital sex with several different partners is said to 
be one of these experiences. Sex is "exciting" and is seen by some as an essential 
component of "a good weekend." <R>. The fact is that although 
nobody wants to admit it or talk about it, there are more and more cases of premarital 
sex every day <R>.

The ideas in the first paragraph seem to be just common sense, the fact that they are 
applied to premarital sex instead to non-marital sex or extra-marital sex might not be so 
important. They should be considered as the ideas that anybody should have in mind 
when having a sane sexual relationship. On the other hand, finding sex exciting or 
experience is something that is not so evident. Sex might be all those things, but also 
many more. It just depends on the person.

To sum up, there is a lot of controversy in the matter of pre-marital sex, but mainly the 
main argumentation is that it is a matter of free choice. If someone freely chooses being 
catholic then maybe he will stay to those principles, but someone agnostic or atheist 
may just want to explore inside him or herself to see what is better for him and his 
couple.


 


