Should smoking be forbidden in bars and restaurants? Nowadays this is a much argued 
point and laws regulating these problems are spreading throughout the world: in Spain, 
for instance, New Year's Eve 2006 was the first day of prohibition, but in other 
countries, such as Ireland, Norway or some states of the United States, laws of a similar 
kind have been taking effect for several years. The objective of these laws is to achieve 
a smoke-free environment in pubs and restaurants to protect the health of those who 
work there. The Norwegian government also hopes to "de-normalise" smoking as a 
social pastime <R>. From non-smokers point of view smoking should be 
banned, because they are disturbed by it, but, on the other hand, smokers defend their 
right to smoke wherever and whenever they feel like it. Another point of view supports 
that there should be different areas for smokers and non-smokers, in order to avoid 
either of them disturbing the others. In this essay, I will point out the main opinions, and 
also why they seem acceptable to me or not.

One possible argument against smoking in public places is that non-smokers are also 
damaged by it, because they are breathing it when they are with smokers, and some 
people might also say that it is even worse for non-smokers than for smokers. 
Supporters of these laws say that they prevent passive smoking, encourage smokers to 
quit and prevent people taking up the habit <R>. In addition, there are 
people who do not like the smell that tobacco leaves in their clothes after they leave bars 
and restaurants where smoking is allowed. One of the most important benefits of these 
laws to a country can be gauged in billions of pounds, according to supporters, given the 
cost of treating smoking-related diseases like cancer and heart disease <R>.

From my point of view it is true that passive smokers will be benefited with the 
instalment of these laws across the world, because they will no longer have to suffer the 
inconvenience of having to breathe other people's smoke while they go to a bar or a 
restaurant. I would also agree with the sector that claims that smoking-related diseases 
are very expensive for public sanities, but I do not rely in a ban to stop people from 
smoking. I feel that people have to be motivated in order to stop smoking, and a law 
cannot really serve as a motivation, as long as it is just based on prohibition. Drugs have 
been banned for long, and it has never stopped drug-addicts in their habit. Nevertheless, 
I really expect it will discourage people from starting, or at least that it will delay the 
age in which they begin to smoke.

On the other hand, people who smoke think that if they feel like smoking why are they 
going to be forbidden to do that, and they also might think that they do not disturb 
anyone because they are not disturbed when someone smokes by their side. They claim 
that if non-smokers don't like to be around smoke, they should use their freedom of 
choice to not enter a building where the owner has decided to allow it, instead of 
denying everyone's freedom of choice by banning tobacco. Besides, there is evidence of 
the ban provoking quarrels, fights and even murders <R>. The 
ban is not always useful in what it intends, for instance smoking bans in public places 
leads to children being exposed to higher levels of tobacco smoke at home, a study by 
University College London shows. They have found that smokers were more likely to 
light up at home if prevented from doing so in cafes and bars, so the ban only displaces 
the problem without really solving it <R>.

As I see it, freedom of choice is very important for people and they should not be 
denied it. However, it seems difficult to mark the limits between one's freedom of 
choice and other's freedom; so, maybe the smoker's rights end where non-smoker's 
begin. Anyway I think that banning something just brings problems, so maybe it should 
be prohibited in some places, leaving others for people who enjoy smoking, and this 
would also make people more conscious of where they can smoke or not, not leaving 
them with a high anxiety level that they release at home damaging thus their children.

As a result of this most bar owners may think that they would easily go to bankrupt as 
soon as the ban is accepted, because most people smoke and if they do not go to bars 
there would be few people in, and bars would not do business at all, so most of them 
would have to close. According to the Ban Loss Database <R> lots of business had a lot of losses when the ban was applied in their areas and 
some even have to close down. But also some bar tenders might think that people would 
be more comfortable in their place if they didn't have to breathe so much smoke, and 
this is the reason why some small bars have become completely for non-smokers in 
Spain, after the ban took effect. Anyway they are a minority due to the fact that most 
bartenders think it would affect their business negatively, and almost 90% bars with a 
total surface area of less than 100 square metres have decided to let their customers 
continue smoking, said José Luis Guerra, spokesman for the Spanish Hoteliers 
Federation <R>.

I agree with most bar owners about the fact that many people smoke socially, and that is 
usually done in bars, so, if people are not allowed to do so in some bars but are in 
others, they would probably go to those ones in which they are able to smoke without 
any problem. Besides, I am also of the opinion that if a group of people have some 
smokers in it they would probably go to some place where the smokers can also be 
comfortable, and that is why if only some bars prohibit tobacco they will have great 
losses.

It could also be said that it would be good for both smokers and non-smokers that bars 
could have two zones, one for smokers and one for non smokers, for none of them to 
disturb the others, and maybe some people would agree although it implies two 
problems: first, most people go out with people who smoke, so they would have to go to 
the smokers area and it would be the same for them; besides, that area will be 
overcrowded, while maybe the other one will remain half empty. Second, bar owners 
would say that they do not want to spend a large amount of money in repairing in their 
places, and without those changes the smoke would go from one zone to the other. So 
most bar tenders would not do that or if they do that would cost them a lot of money, so 
the prices would have to be increased in order for them to repay the reformations and 
people wouldn't want to pay more for things that are not that expensive.

I think that the ones who have the biggest problem in relation to the ban are bar and 
restaurant managers, because they will face the consequences more directly than 
individuals. Firstly because individuals may choose to go to a bar where smoking is 
allowed, and secondly due to the fact that, although most people think that having two 
separate zones is the best solution, that is a very expensive thing to put into practice. 
Customers want to have a better atmosphere but they also want the prices to remain the 
same. Meanwhile bar owners want to have their customers happy and to make the most 
profit out of their business. So, this seems to be a matter of different interests which are 
not compatible with each other. From my point of view the best solution might be that, 
as the government also has some interest in the ban, they should provide bars which 
want to have different areas habilitated with some kind of economical help, in order for 
them finding it easier.

For all these reasons, it seems to be a really difficult point, and it would not be easy 
saying just yes or no. It should be voted for, because then we would be able to know if it 
should or if it should not be banned. The main problem is that in most countries where 
the ban has been applied there has been no referendum to see what the majority of the 
population thinks of this issue, and this is something that should concern governments. 
In conclusion, there are almost as many people in one side than in the other, but it is 
also a political problem, and thus it should be solved politically without forgetting about 
the interests of the population.



