
Nowadays piracy is one of the most controversial problems in our society. According to 
the International Federation of Phonographic Industry (IPFI) one in three music discs 
sold worldwide is an illegal copy and pirate sales outnumber legitimate sales in 31 
countries. This may indicate that there is a major problem affecting the music industry 
around the world. In this essay I will try to argue that the growth of piracy will not 
finish with the music, but only with the abusive conditions imposed in the artists and 
abusive prices that customers must pay.

Music is a cultural thing, and as such, it can be claimed, that it is something that is part 
of every human being, and that all of us has the right to be able to get to know it. Being 
so, the fact that you have to pay for it might be a capitalistic problem. I think, that as it 
is part of the cultural baggage of our society we should all have free access to it. You 
cannot put a price to anybody's thoughts, and that is the reason why price cannot be put 
to somebody's creation of music. Some people would argue that if you work hard for 
something you have be paid for it, and that is something I also agree on, but, from my 
point of view, you can be charged for the privilege of enjoying it in some certain ways 
(such as in live concerts or in performances or representations in theatres, where people 
works for you to enjoy it even more), but not for only being able to listen to it whenever 
you want to. Some groups and companies have already seen this, and because of that are 
now offering some additional contents in the CDs. This is the case of the American 
band Bon Jovi, which in one of their previous records decided to take a new step to 
fight piracy. They offered their fans an incentive for buying its latest CD rather than 
obtaining a pirated copy from the internet; users buying a legitimate copy of Bounce 
would find a 13-digit number inside the packaging. This serial number could be used on 
the group's website to entitle the user to special privileges, including tickets for concerts 
before they go on general release, unseen footage of the band and downloads of live 
versions of songs. According to Larry Mattera, head of new media at Bon Jovi's record 
label Island Def Jam, the band wanted to find imaginative ways of persuading fans to 
buy legitimate copies of their new album. 

There is another problem that has to do with piracy, and that is the one having to do 
with the copying of a CD. Every time you buy a new CD (without anything having been 
recorded to it) you are paying a cannon, supposedly to pay artists in case you write 
music into it. Some sectors of society agree with the paying of this cannon, assuming 
that this is a way to solve piracy. So, if you are paying a cannon for being able to copy 
music in a CD, there is no way to declare afterwards that the music in it is illegal. I 
think that this is not a very good solution, because nowadays CDs and DVDs are the 
format most people use to keep copies of every kind of files from familiar photos to 
university papers, and it doesn't seem fair to me that you have to pay a tax to authors for 
recording your own work, although it can be easily seen that there is no other solution, 
at least for now, than using the same medium for both things, and thus, paying for the 
cannon seems logical, provided that, then, the content of that medium is legalized.

I can also agree with the opinion that it is not right that if an artist creates something 
then some mafias selling pirate copies of their works are going to make profit on that. 
According to the numbers of the IFPI pirate sales outnumber legitimate sales in 31 
countries. From my point of view free distribution of music (as the one done in the 
internet, by means of p2p programs) is something that should not be prosecuted, bearing 
in mind that people connecting to the internet are also paying a tax for the right of 
downloading files which are or are not copyrighted. But the problem of mafias selling 
illegal copies seems to be a completely different problem, because, in this case there is 
people taking advantage of that, and, as I have discussed above when I mentioned big 
discographic companies making profit of it instead of the authors, still seems to be 
against the free diffusion of culture.

As many other people, I think that the price of the CD's and programs is abusive, and 
because of it, some years ago, some people who would have liked to enjoy it have not 
been able to afford it, and so, they have been deprived of that pleasure. It could be 
argued that artists work very hard to get an LP and that they deserve a salary for it, but, 
according to Ignacio Escolar1, 2002, only about 0.20 € of each disc sold are given to the 
artist, the rest is lost in the bureaucracy, so, as Diego (member of Los Delinqüentes 
band, 2005) says, the artist business is in the concerts, and discography companies' is in 
the selling of discs. Because of this it seems to me that artists would get their salary 
with or without piracy, because people has not stopped going to concerts, besides they 
seem to go even more, now that they can save the money they would spend on the disc 
for the concert.

There is also a sector that claims that if piracy is not stopped music will disappear, that 
artists will stop making new songs, and that will be the end of the creation of music. 
From my point of view, and according to some artists, for them is better having people 
going to their concerts than buying their discs, so maybe they would end up just 
releasing the discs in the internet and doing concerts. <Q> <R>. The only damaged part would be the 
discographic industry and not the artists as such, who would not stop creating music: 
<Q> <R>.
To sum up, I think that unless you are given some privileges when buying a legitimate 
CD it seems more profitable, for both bands and fans, to buy concert tickets, but the 
problem that if music bands can survive after a change of everything that is now the 
music industry is still in the air. Maybe big companies should find a way to encourage 
people buying legal copies of their records, but from my point of view, they should also 
leave open the possibility of getting their favourite songs somewhere else where they 
can afford them, without giving profits to mafias, but trying to conciliate artists' and 
fans' needs.
 
 
 
 






