In our present society exists a problem that is worried to the teachers, 
the students or included the most of the people. This problem is the 
violence in the schools or bullying (this word comes from the word 
bully which means a person who uses her or his strength or power to 
frighten or hurt others). A recent report done by <R> rebels that the 15 percentage of 
the people, that works in the schools, has been hounded and the 70 
percentage has suffered some depression for the treat of the students. 
This problem affects to the students too. The 48 percentage of the 
students of Spain between 9 and 14 years old has suffered pursuit for 
some partner. In this essay, I intend to argue why the violence in the 
schools hasincreased in nowadays and I will try to give some solutions 
to reduce this problem.	From my point of view, the basic argument, 
that the violence has increased, is that people does not feel the respect 
from other persons. People are less tolerance with others, and many kids 
are the reason of their jokes. I believe that each person has his or her 
skills and everybody are different. However, I believe that some people 
need to fight with somebody because he or she has to show his or her 
superiority. According to Nora Rodríguez, these kids sometimes 
feel that the world in they live is "the law of the jungle" and the manner 
of surviving is this. But the tolerance is very scarce in our society and 
the kinds use the violence to funny.	My opinion is also supported 
that the violence has a focus around the family and the society like the 
television or the books. First of all, some studies said that the family is 
the reason of this problem. The style of the life, the competitiveness, 
their only value is the "I" and the partner is not important can provoke 
in the kids, the sad reason to imitate the adult and they use the violence 
to be stronger <R>. But I the other hand, the 
television and the books is, in my opinion, the most influence in the 
kids. For example, it exists some cartoons like "bola de dragon" or "the 
Simpson" in which the violence is the principle argument. In the first, 
the characters are always fight to the others and in the second, the kid 
called Bart is the most hooligan boy of the school and is the model of 
many boys. In reference to the books, I think that the number one of the 
book is "Harry Potter".The book is permitted to the kids and the 
adventures of this boy are not the adventures of the normal boys. 
According to the <R> should have programmes to teach the young people the 
importance of tolerance and the respect of the fellow man. The violence 
that exists in the television is crucial to the young people. Nevertheless, 
the television is an important object in our society and the violence 
appears a lot of time in our screens and the boys think that these 
programmes are a normal thing about the society.	It exists a lot of 
cases in Spain about bullying. For example the case of Jokin, the boy 
that committed a suicide because their partners jokes him or the case of 
Sandra who has problem with food and their partners begin to joke her 
because she was very slim; we could tell a lot of cases like this. In my 
point of view, the jokes have always existed but now, young people are 
cruller because the society that they have as a model is cruller too. I 
think that parents, mass media, teachers are responsible for this situation 
because they are occupied by the education of the young people. But 
there are no excuses for this behaviour in order to the vision of the 
pursuers.	Could we reduce this situation? In my opinion, the answer is 
yes, but, how? The society should change gradually. For instance, the 
"Consejo de Ministros" has approved a new reform of "la ley del 
menor"; this reform is that one judge can pronounce a removal order for 
the young people attack another. This law could avoid the contact 
between the person who hounds another. Although I believe that this is 
not enough. The education should take decisions to reduce it. For 
instance, the teachers could give courses about the violence and the 
tolerance because many adolescents do not know about the meaning of 
these words. However, the law is more severe than others rules and 
children can respect the better.	At times, the adolescents tell theirs 
parents his or her particular situation but parents sometimes think that 
this situation is a thing of the boys. This problem is the worst that 
parents can do because primarily, we must believe our sons and if we 
have some evidence about this problem; we have to put in contact with 
the teachers. In Lerida, it exists of the case that a boy called "Goliath". 
He is 13 years old, his mother discovers that his son was attacked to 
other boys and she decided to go to the psychology with him and to talk 
with the teachers. In this school, the teachers put measures not to 
happen the same situation. If only, these measures could do at the all 
centres of education. I think that parents do not often help his or her 
sons because many times they accuse other boys of being the guilty of 
this problem. Perhaps, one day we can have the confidence enough in 
avoiding this cases that appears in this century.	To conclude, I have tried 
to see the reason of the violence has increased much in this time and I 
have put some solutions to reduce them. I think that this situation is 
owing to the society and everybody should help to change it. The 
children are our future and we should bring up them. Violence, in 
general, is not well and children must learn what the tolerance, the 
respect... is. Although, I believe that the most important thing is that 
boys has to learn that everybody are different and this reason is not a 
motive to fight or joke him or her.        
