	The homosexual marriage is a present issue in modern society; it is 
presented in the media, TV, newspapers, radio, and it has become a 
common subject to talk about. Although, in Spain, people are talking about 
nowadays, and it is becoming an important issue. People are aware of it and 
they do not avoid to think about it. Some months ago, the government of 
Spain has approved a new law in order that the homosexual people can get 
married (this law is a modification of the civil marriage to homosexual 
marriage can get married to be legal). This issue has generated a great 
controversy in some different kind of people because the idea of the 
homosexual people can get married is a motive to different beliefs. In this 
essay, I intend to discuss the controversial issue of the homosexual 
marriage and I am going to analyse the different perspectives.

	Spain can be a country with a great Catholic tradition and they do not 
contemplate the homosexual marriage. The Catholic people
definition  marriage as: the union between a man and a 
woman and this is the base of the family (this definition is approved to The 
<R> because Catholics base the concept of marriage in the 
definition said before.

	It could be said that Catholics express their rejection about the 
change of the definition of marriage because the union between men and 
women have existed later years ago. Some people of this religion argue that 
any model of union can become a family such as it was a club. On the other 
hand, the Church tell that homosexual people must be respected and they 
have the help of the Church. They are sons of the God and Christ loves all 
the people but the Vaticano can not tolerate that this homosexual union will 
be called "marriage".

	It seems that some people think that homosexuality is a variation of 
the human sexuality. In the science, in the religion or, included, in the 
morality can not demonstrate that the human sexuality is only heterosexual. 
In the History can see that the relation and the heterosexual marriage have 
been the dominate but this argument does not authorize so that this 
marriage is the only can exist. The Spanish society should accept it. In a 
study, of the Institution of the Health, related to the sexuality, said that in 
the human sexuality has not existed the idea of the procreation because of 
the concept of the life in common and this is a consequence of the love. For 
this reason some people believe that the homosexual union is a 
consequence of the love and they can do a life in common; obviously, 
without the possibility of being parents for the biological form. It could be 
said that the homosexual marriage can be the same that the heterosexual 
marriage because the sexuality can variate, not only can exist the union 
between a man and a woman.

	One of the main argument in favour of the homosexual marriage is 
supported by FELGT (Statal federation of Gays, Lesbians, Transexuals 
y Bisexuals). This association explains their arguments based on the 
Spanish Constitution. For example: the article 32.1 said: <R>; in this article, it 
could be said that men and women have the freedom to marry with they 
want. FELGT argues that does not exist, in the Constitution, a sentence in 
which the word marriage means the union among people of the different 
sex, like that; this group does not understand for what they do not marry 
because they have the same rights than others. Another argument is the 
article 14 that said: <R>. 

Everybody are the same not important the sex and the person is free to do 
what he or she wants because the Constitution says that everybody have 
freedom to decide what they wants.

	Spain is the fourth country that authorizes the homosexual marriage 
according to the other European countries or other American countries.
For instances, in some countries of United States is permitted the marriage 
among people of the same sex. Canada have also approved this marriage 
but Texas, for example, has not approved it so Texas is the 19th estate in 
assuming this form. In countries of Europe the homosexual marriage exists 
too. In Belgian, for instance, the rights of the couple of "gays and lesbians" 
are the same than the heterosexual couples. However, the homosexual 
people does not adopt a child; instead of the child has to have a mother and 
a father. A baby can imitate the relation that their parents have. It is 
considered damaging to the child. This is the other fight that homosexual 
people have. Actually, some people begin to accept that the laws have to 
change because the relation between a man and a woman is not the only 
and the modern society has to see the new values of the people.

 	So then, there many arguments concerning the legalisation of the 
homosexual marriage in Spain. The main arguments in favour are the fact 
that everybody are similar in the presence of the law and people must not 
discriminate the homosexuality; all of them are the same than you, only 
change his or her sexuality. On the other hand, the religious people or the 
institution in defence of the family think that the marriage is a thing 
between a man and woman and it is not possible to people of the same sex. 
On balance, the legalisation of the homosexual marriage is a fact in Spain, 
for example but this happens in the rest of the countries. The Spanish 
Government has approved this law and the Spanish people will become 
accustomed to see people of the equal sex kissing or getting married 
because they have the opportunity to do it.



