




Traditionally, prison sentences have been seen by many people as the natural and 
rightful punishments for most crimes. Since the introduction of alternative 
punishments, however, the question of the effectiveness of prison as compared to 
alternatives has been brought up frequently in public discussions. Even though the 
use of alternative punishments has increased in many countries during the last 
decades and people have started to see this option in a more positive light, it is still 
a sensitive issue that divides opinions in half. In this essay, I will argue that a prison 
sentence may not always the appropriate punishment and that, in the case of non-
violent crimes, alternative punishments should be used more frequently than they 
presently are.
In my opinion, the strongest argument for alternative punishments is the fact 
that they can be more effective in reducing re-offending than prison sentences. In 
fact, it has been shown by research that the most effective forms of community 
supervision programs can reduce offending 15 per cent more than the more 
traditional prison sentences <R>. Especially 
in the case of offenders with alcohol or drug dependencies the results for using 
alternatives, such as residential treatment centres, have been promising <R>. One reason for this may be that, as offenders are also treated rather than only 
punished, the real causes for their crimes can be eliminated. Of course, it could be 
argued that the fact that alternative punishments are not as harsh as prison sentences 
to the convicted reduces their effectiveness. As Henry points out, many people still 
believe that the more severe the punishment is, the better its effects are <R>. 
However, I believe that the severity of prison sentences does not necessarily 
prevent criminals from breaking the law. For some people, a prison sentence is just 
something they have to endure and it does not actually change their behaviour 
<R> Moreover, alternative punishments can, 
from my point of view, be more demanding than - if not as harsh as - prison 
sentences. Namely, in addition to having their personal freedom restricted, 
offenders are obliged to perform concrete activities in order to compensate for their 
crimes. These duties may include, for instance, unpaid work for the benefit of the 
community.
       Another aspect that I think is strongly in favour of alternative punishments is 
its costs to the government and to the taxpayers. Even though the costs of 
community sentences vary, they tend to be remarkably lower than the costs of 
locking up an offender in prison. In the State of South Carolina, for example, the 
cost of prison per offender was in 1993 $44 per day whereas the cost of alternative 
punishments ranged from only $1.65 to $28 per day <R>. According to 
some estimates, a prison sentence can result almost twelve times more expensive 
than a community sentence <R>. By using 
alternative punishments more often, the need for building more costly prison 
facilities could also be avoided in addition to reducing the high costs of 
maintenance in prison. The opponents of alternative punishments may argue, 
however, that if an offender is not sent to prison, he or she will be able to commit 
other crimes that the society will have to pay for one way or another. It has to be 
remembered, though, that, first of all, alternative punishments are in general used in 
cases of minor offences whose committers do not constitute a major threat to 
society and, second of all, that prisoners sentenced for the same kinds of crimes will 
be freed in a relatively short period of time, being then able to re-offend - nearly 60 
per cent of prisoners will <R>. Thus the 
taxpayers first have to pay for the costs of keeping offenders in prison and then for 
the expenses caused by recidivisms. This seems to me like a waste of public 
resources.           
       Alternative punishments also offer criminals the chance to compensate for 
their offences in a concrete way. In community service, offenders have to perform 
activities that benefit the society and criminals who work in restitution programs 
can even pay back to their victims for the harm they have caused (Nieto, 2005). In 
prison, offenders are not able to do this, and I believe, as does Grönfors, that it is 
more reasonable to have offenders work in order to compensate for their crimes 
than to make them sit in prison if they are of no use there <R>. Others may think, 
however, that it is not enough that offenders compensate for their crimes materially 
but that they should also pay back emotionally, having to carry the "badge of 
shame" of being in prison <R>. Personally, I 
would argue that any kind of a punishment is always shameful to whom it is given. 
Not many offenders would probably be proud to tell in public that they are 
performing community service, for instance.
       In my opinion, it is also important that, after the sentence is completed, 
offenders be able to lead as normal a life as possible, and this is accomplished 
through alternative punishments rather than prison sentences. Prisoners are taken 
away from their families and usually lose the possibility to continue in the same 
working community after leaving prison, which makes starting their life over 
significantly harder. In contrast, offenders who are sentenced to community service, 
for example, are allowed to remain part of the workforce and can stay in contact 
with their families <R>. Thus returning to 
normal, everyday life after compensating for the crimes is made easier for them. 
One may ask, of course, why criminals should be given the luxury of being able to 
lead a normal and satisfactory life. I would argue that the answer lies in the 
likelihood of recidivism. Namely, losing one's home, job and contact with families 
and friends because of prison are all factors that significantly increase the likelihood 
of re-offending <R>. If offenders can easily 
return to their normal life - which is more often achieved through alternatives than 
prison sentences - the risk of renewals of the crimes is kept to a minimum, and I 
believe that to be the main objective of punishments.
       The final argument for alternative punishments is, from my point of view, 
the fact that sentencing an offender to prison facilitates him or her to make contacts 
with other, usually more experienced, criminals. In prison, therefore, "colleges of 
crime" are formed and offenders may, in fact, be urged to commend more and even 
more severe crimes than before after leaving prison <R>. Alternative punishments, on the other hand, are less likely 
introduce the sentenced to new criminal circles and also for that reason help 
preventing recidivism. Naturally, it could be argued that offenders can more easily 
maintain contacts with their former partners in crime if they are not sent to prison. 
Although this may be partly true in some cases, it has to be remembered that, even 
when alternatives are used as a punishment, offenders are usually regularly 
monitored by officials and thus have a very minimal chance of keeping in contact 
with criminal circles. Moreover, they are directed more towards the "normal" 
society than to the direction of the criminal circles found inside prison walls.
       In conclusion, alternative punishments have several advantages that, in my 
opinion, promote a more frequent use of them in criminal court. First of all, and 
most importantly, alternative punishments seem to be more effective than prison as 
to preventing criminals from re-offending. Second of all, they cost taxpayers 
significantly less than sentencing offenders to prison. Third of all, alternative 
punishments offer criminals a chance to compensate for their crimes in concrete 
terms and also, at the same time, to stay in touch with the social reality through 
contacts with their families and working environment. Finally, by the means of 
alternative punishments offenders are directed away from criminal circles rather 
than introduced to more criminals as in the case of prison. Taking all these 
advantages of alternative punishments into account then, it would seem reasonable 
to consider them more frequently when sentencing non-violent crime offenders in 
order to make punishments, as well as the whole legal system, more effective.



		
							
