Motherhood is one of the most basic roles in the world - if there were no mothers, 
neither would anyone else exist. Perhaps the fact that motherhood is such a fundamental 
institution has also made many of its aspects some of the most debated topics in 
Western societies. There have been arguments over what qualities make a mother a 
good mother, for instance, and whether the females of certain social or age groups, such 
as teenagers or lesbians, should be allowed to have children or not. Another ongoing 
debate has revolved around the question of whether mothers of young children should 
stay at home. The opinions range from one extreme to another: some people would not 
allow any mothers to work, whereas others argue that in order to have a completely 
satisfying life, a woman should participate actively in working life at the same time as 
she raises her children and enjoys her social life. In this essay, I will discuss some of 
these different perspectives on whether mothers of young children should have the 
possibility to pursue a career in working life.
	One of the views on the issue is strongly against the idea of a working mother. 
The supporters of this view argue that children need their mothers to be present all the 
time and that women with children should therefore not work at all but stay home with 
their children. Their opinion is supported by the findings of research that suggest that 
infants need the continuous presence of their mother in order for their mental 
development to be normal. According to a study mentioned by Weber <R> in her 
article, placing a child in a substitute care for 20 or more hours a week during his or her 
first year may have a serious impact on his or her psychological development. The child 
may, for example, become insecurely attached to his or her parents. Some research even 
suggests that the children of working mothers are more likely to perform badly at school 
and have psychological problems later on in their adulthood <R>. It could also 
be claimed that many working mothers feel exhausted after a day at work and may not 
therefore have the energy to be with and to give the best of them to their children on 
their free time. In addition, as Cline <R> notes, many conservative evangelicals and 
fundamentalists think that <Q>. For them, this is a 
fundamental principle as they believe that God assigned the task of taking care of the 
family for women. 
	The arguments that are used to support the idea that mothers should stay at home 
and not work also have their problems, however. First of all, studies show that mothers 
do not actually spend less time with their children nowadays than they did four decades 
ago, for instance, despite the higher number of working mothers today <R>. 
Riba also states that, throughout history, it has been common for mothers to work 
outside childrearing, taking chores, such as spinning, into the home or working outside 
the home. In addition, even when mothers stayed at home, they usually had so many 
chores to do without the modern inventions such as washing machines that they did not 
have that much time to spend with the children. Second, there are contrasting studies to 
the one presented by Weber that was mentioned above, that suggest that a child's 
development is not affected in a negative way if the mother returns to work within 18 
months of the child's birth, <Q> <R>. Third, 
there have also been statements made by different instances that the Bible does not 
prohibit women from working in addition to raising children and taking care of home 
<R>. As to non-fundamentalists or less conservative Christians, 
being a mother and working at the same time would in most cases not occur to them as 
being a sin. 
	A contrasting point of view on the issue is given by those who think that it is 
women's right to participate in working life in addition to taking care of their children if 
they so choose. As we are living in a world where more attention is paid to women's 
equal rights with men, it has been argued that if it is thought that it is natural for fathers 
to work, then the same rule should be applied to when deciding whether mothers can 
work or not. Some people even think that women cannot lead a completely satisfying 
life if they do not get the chance to work alongside raising their children. It could be 
claimed that mothers can give more to their children if they do not only concentrate on 
home but also get experiences outside it. In addition to the arguments that give attention 
to women's needs there are others that concentrate on the child. Scholten <R> points 
out, for example, that children who are in day care while their mothers are working will 
have the opportunity to develop their social skills with other children. They are also 
likely to become independent and responsible at an earlier age than other children. It 
could thus be claimed that if mothers work, they may benefit both themselves and their 
children.
	The strength of this point of view on working mothers is that it expresses the 
idea of equal rights of men and women. If fathers' right to decide to work when he has 
small children is not questioned, then it seems reasonable to expect mothers to have the 
same choice. Nevertheless, when the rights of women are emphasized by the supporters 
of working mothers, those of their children may be forgotten or neglected. Although 
some research seems to show that it does not affect the child negatively if his or her 
mother works and some studies even find positive outcomes of it, it may be argued that 
"the parent is needed the most" by children <R>. The supporters of the above 
presented arguments should therefore also pay more attention to the children who have 
the least possibility to defend their rights.                                                 
	In addition to these two perspectives, there are other points of view in relation to 
working mothers that occupy the middle ground. The supporters of the first one of them 
think that mothers should only work outside home when they have no other alternative. 
Thus single mothers would be allowed to work as well as mothers whose income is 
needed in addition to the father's income in order to satisfy the child's basic needs. 
Weber <R>, for example, acknowledges the fact that there are mothers who have no 
other option but to work even though she advocates the alternative of mothers staying at 
home. 
	The problem with this argument is that it seems to be establishing unequal rights 
among women. Many women would argue that if a single mother, for example, is given 
the opportunity to work outside the home and not feel guilty about it, then all other 
mothers should be given the same privilege. For most women, it is not just a question of 
having equal rights with men but also of having the same rights among all women. 
       Another viewpoint is that mothers who wish to work outside the home could do 
that - but only when the child is older. The suggestions for when mothers can return to 
working life vary. Some people say that it is safe to put the child into day care when he 
or she is three or four months old, whereas others claim that mothers should spend the 
first two or three years of their children's life with them <R>. The 
supporters of this alternative claim that it affects children negatively if their mother is 
not at home with them when they are young. In addition, however, they also argue that 
mothers should be able to work if they so wish after the critical stage of the child's 
psychological development is passed.
	The issue could be looked at from one more perspective, in which a compromise 
is being sought between the supporters and the opponents of mothers' right to work. To 
the supporters of this view the answer is work at home. This would offer mothers the 
possibility to work and at the same time to be with their children at home. It may be 
argued that this option takes into account both the needs of the mother and those of her 
children: the mother can be active and do other things besides raising children and 
looking after the home, whereas the child can enjoy the mother's presence and 
caretaking. A mother who stays at home, then, is able to make the connection between 
herself and her child stronger by spending time with him or her <R>.
	One of the strengths of these last two points of view is that they try to 
compromise between the contrasting arguments of those who think that mothers should 
not work and those who see it as mothers' right to be able to work. They take into 
account the needs and wants of mothers as well as the well-being of their children. 
However, it could be argued that many times compromises like these are hard to make 
because the possibilities to work at home, for instance, may not always be available or 
because sometimes what the mother wants may not be achieved through delaying 
returning to work or working at home. Nevertheless, these last points of view seem to 
provide more moderate solutions to the question of whether mothers should work or not 
and try not to take the issue to extremes, either prohibiting or forcing mothers to work.    
	In conclusion, there are various different perspectives on the issue of working 
mothers that all have their strengths and weaknesses. People who say that mothers 
should not work forget the right of women to decide for themselves, whereas those who 
emphasize the positive effects that being able to work can have on mothers may forget 
to take into account the child. Thus the best way to address this issue may be to try to 
find a middle way and advocate alternatives such as working from home or returning to 
work when children have grown a little. The question will probably continue to be a 
polemical one but, when discussing whether mothers should work or not, the most 
important thing to bear in mind is the effects that either alternative have on both the 
mother and the child.                      



		
