
Bullying is defined as <R>. Generally, it is thought that bullying exclusively talks about 
something physical and external: as fights and aggressions. Nevertheless, there is 
multitude of attitudes of verbal and psychological harassment that have the same 
devastating effects: insults, humiliations, critics, isolations, jokes, robberies of material, 
and so on. In general, this phenomenon of the bullying is given between several persons 
towards the alone one. Often, bullies are persons with low autoesteem that lack assertive 
strategies to solve conflicts and that they receive a great agresiveness in their family or 
in the environment which they live. In my opinion, bullying is one of the worst and 
most serious problems that happens in schools today. In this essay I will try to give 
some solutions that can help to reduce the cases of bullying at schools. 

Recently, new cases of bullying have appeared on TV and in newspapers.  In these 
cases the victims have been pupils and teachers. In one of these cases the uncle of a 
child went to the school and hitted to a teacher because the boy have been punished for 
not doing the homeworks. As a consecuence, the teacher has lost the 40% of hearing. In 
my opinion, cases as this provokes that bullying increase at schools because children 
feel that they are supported by their families when they do something that is bad. One 
solution to prevent it would be that education do not start at schools, it start at home. 
Parents would grumble and punish their children when they don something bad and also 
parents would instill some moral values such tolerance. However, many parents argue 
that they do not reproach to their sons the bad actions because it could cause a 
psychological trauma. Besides, in many ocasions, parents and relatives defend children 
when someone else reprimand for their actions.  Nevertheless, the actitude of the 
parents cause that the children believe that what they do is well and when they grow up 
they have an agressive conducte in schools with other people.

In many cases children who are bullies suffer school failure, or they change their 
behaviour without any apearent cause and bullying turns into a mechanism of defense in 
order to avoid that the own weaknesses are revealed. In theses cases, parents should try 
to speak with their sons in order to discover why they fail at school or why they have 
changed their behaviour. Nevertheless, many parents argue that bullying is something 
that always have been existed at school and it is a children game. They say that bullying 
is something that almost everybody has suffered and it helps to children to see how live 
is. However, nowadays bullying is becoming in something more dangerous since there 
are teenagers that have committed suicide because they could not bear the harrasment 
that their partners produced them. I think that for this reason, bullying has to be 
prevented from the familiar environment. Some ways to avoid it could be that parents 
must avoid violent behaviours in their sons; parents must learn to know better their 
children, worry about them and one way to do it could be to get to know the friends of  
their children and know which are their interests, projects, how the play, and so on.

I think that the pace of life that people have is very stressed ant id is based on being the 
whole day out of home and children spend a great number of hours at school doing 
diferent scholar and extra-scholar activities. When they arrive at home parents do not 
worry of them because they are too busy doing housework or working at home. 
Children cannot tell their problems to anybody an a way to expulse their frustration  is 
hitting other children or teachers. From my point of view, a way to solve this would be 
that parents reduce the pace of work in order to speak more with them without creating 
monologues since a way to know better children is hearing them. Although many 
parents argue that is very difficult to do this because if they reduce the pace of work it is 
very difficult to come at the end of month. However, at weekends instead of trying to 
spend more time with their children, parents are too busy resting and for example what 
they do is to let the children watch TV, play computer and so on. Parents do not realise 
that it is important to have a certain comunication with their children and on the other 
hand, TV, computer... are not good because there are much violence and children can 
learn these violent behaviours.

Many people argue that schools are believed that must educate children because they 
spend many hours there. However, I think that educate is not the labour of schools, 
families must educate chilren. Moreover, when a child starts to go to school he/she is 2 
or 3 years old and education shoukd start much time before. I believe that schools must 
complement the labour of the familiar environment. In order to prvent bullying the role 
of the families and schools is very important. In my point of view, at home, parents 
should determine rules and they must demand its fullfilment and also parents should  
educate children in order to control the emotions, to behave with the others and to 
coexist with others. On the other hand, the kind of discipline that exists in the classroom 
and in the center performs fundamental importance in the construction of a good 
conduct. The constant supervision in the classrooms and in the court, as well as in the 
dining room, also is important at the moment of detecting if any school harassment is or 
not happening. Teachers and keepers always should be present. 

In adition to this, there are people who argue that schools are the only responsible for 
bullying and these have to solve the problem. However, I think that the fact that 
bullying only happens at the school does not mean that schools must face alone the 
problem. I think that schools can help to solve it but they need the help of families, 
guvernamental institutions and even the help of the media. Firstly, in the corridors and 
in the court there should be someone to attend and to inspect the pupils. Schools should 
find some kind of punishment that were really effective because in many ocassions the 
expulsion is not a solution. In some cases this is seen as a kind of reward and it could 
deteriorate the problem. There are people who say that teachers might be allowed to hit 
pupils when they are invloved in bullying. Nevertheless, I think that violence cannot be 
punished with violence. Secondly, I think that guvernamental institutions should take 
seriously this situation and try prevent it. I think that some sensitizing campaign could 
help to prevent the problem. It could be that these campaigns are not very useful in 
children and teenagers that have became in bullies, but they could help to prevent future 
cases of bullying. Thirdly, I think that the media should controle more the contents that 
they publish or emit. Nevertheless, there are many people that say that the media is not 
responsible of the violence in child because they have to diferenciate what is good or 
bad. In my opinion, a child of three or four years cannot diferenciate it and they imitate 
what they see. 

The intervention of the parents is necessary when their child is victim or bully. In the 
case that their child is the victim, the web www.nobully.org.nz gives some advices such 
as the parents have to investigate what is happening hearing the child; the parents have 
to alert the teachers and the directors about the facts in order to ask their cooperation to 
solve the situation; the parents must not estimulate their children to take revenge and it 
is very important to keep calm. In the case that their child is a bully, the same web also 
gives some advices, such as to investigate why the chikd is a bully; to speak with the 
teachers in order to ask them for help and to hear the critics about their child; to observe 
whaht the friends of the child do; to speak with the child; to colaborate with the school 
in order to solve the problem; to show the child that that behaviour is not allowed in the 
family, etc.

In conclusion, it is clear from my point of view that the causes of bullying can reside in 
the educative models to which the children are exposed in the absence of values, limits, 
and rules of living together. The society in general must prevent and stop possible cases 
of bullying. It is necessary to be attentive and do not allow anything or think that 
everything is normal or it is a question of a joke. When a child jokes, threatens or beats 
another child, it is necessary to intervene in order to avoid that it happens again. I 
believe that there are many ways to solve the problem but the role of the family is 
fundamental because they are the responsible for the education of the children due to the 
fact that moral values and respect  must be transmitted musch time before to go school. 
Although the role of the media and schools are important because the media should 
cntrole what they publish or emit and school should control chlidren there and also 
ought to help families to inculcate moral values. Bullying is a problem that always has 
been existed but now it is taking more importance since there are teenagers and children 
that have serious psychological problems even some teenagers have comitted suicide. 
Due to this facts, society is becoming more conscious about this problem and I think 
that it can be solved with the colaboration of the whole society. 




