

       The issue of homosexual marriages is one of the most controversial topics in modern 
culture. Nowadays, homosexual people are asking for the same rights as heterosexual people 
have. Among other rights, they are claiming for marriage and adoption. In our present society, 
homosexual marriages are seen as a difficult problem that the different governments of some 
countries are trying to solve. Spain has turned into the last country that has legalised 
homosexual marriages. Other countries are Holland, Canada, Belgium, Denmark and some 
states of the United States. In this essay I am going to give the different points of view 
regarding homosexual marriages.
       
       To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of same-sex marriages. Some 
people believe that homosexual people should have the same rights as heterosexual ones have, 
because all are human beings. Generally, marriage is an act of love, and it is produced when 
two people love each other and they decide to get married in order to show their love. The 
same happens with a couple of homosexuals, two people that love each other. For this reason, 
if homosexuals love each other, why do not allow them to get married? Gay and lesbian 
couples should have the same right to get married, like any other person. Some people argue 
that denying homosexual marriages is to maintain the discrimination that they have suffered 
throughout History. Moreover, to deny marriage to these people is like denying them the most 
basic, primary and human right: freedom. In addition to this, the kind of marriage that we 
nowadays have is the result of an evolution which has produced many improvements that at 
first were inconceivable and now they are basic. Interracial marriages, civil marriages, the 
divorce, the prohibition of children marriages or marriages decided by parents, are some 
examples that not always have been admitted and now they are unquestionable. Therefore, to 
allow homosexual marriages is only another improvement in the evolution of marriage. This 
is a strong argument due to the fact that any human being could be privated of his rights. 
Besides, society is developing very fast and the sense of marriage should be adapted to the 
pace of society.
       
       Some arguments against homosexual marriages are maintained, mostly by religious 
people. According to <Q> <R>  and a great number of bishops, same-sex marriages are 
not marriages neither can be legalised because they affect in a negative way to the common 
good of Spanish society, and above all, these marriages cause a tremendous damage to the 
institution of the family since new types of family will be imposed and the traditional and true 
family might disappear. This institution argues that in every culture from the beginning of 
human society, the true marriage has been defined as the union between a man and a woman 
in order to procreate, and the sexual union between a couple of the same sex is not the same 
as the ones maintained by heterosexual partnership. The members of this catholic institution 
claim that the social, politic and anthropological reason is that same-sex unions cannot 
maintain the procreation and the survival of the human race. This does not happen with 
heterosexual marriages since they can have children, and this is the basis of the family that 
keeps the survival of the society up. Besides, in any other cultures the union of same-sex 
couples has been considered as marriage. The legalization of homosexual unions is against the 
traditional marriage and in the near future same-sex unions will destroy marriage institution, 
in the sense that the number of marriages will be reduced. Some people say that there is a 
direct relation between the crisis of the institution of marriage and the acceptance of 
homosexual marriage. Instead of favouring the growth of marriages, same-sex unions are 
provoking people to think that marriage is old-fashioned and that practically any form of 
family is acceptable. This argument against same-sex marriage is weak because it is not true 
that these couples cannot maintain the survival of the human race since nowadays there are 
different methods of having children without the necessity of maintaining sexual relations 
such as in-vitro fecundation. On the other hand, it is true that there may be new types of 
family but this does not mean that traditional families will disappear since heterosexual 
people may continue forming families. In addition to this, some researches have proved that 
the number of marriages in Spain is decreasing since twenty five years ago <R>, therefore, homosexual unions are 
not the cause of this decrease because the polemic of these marriages has arrived only a 
couple of years ago.
       
       On the other hand, the Ecumenical Catholic Church <R> and the Roman Catholic Church of Massachusetts <R> argue that the marriage 
institution is a sacrament that technically has nothing to do with sex. Besides, they consider 
that homosexual matrimonies should be allowed since every human being is equal in the eyes 
of God. The followers of these institutions believe that sexual intimacy is an important part of 
the bond that makes married people have a good relation. To limit marriage to any sexual 
subset of the population is not consistent with this sacrament view. For these Church the 
couples of male-male and female-female are equivalent to those of male-female. In every case 
is really important in marriage what the members of the couple provide for each other. Gay, 
lesbian, and heterosexual marriages are exactly equivalent in the eyes of God and so, it should 
be equivalent in the eyes of both the Church and society. To argue that marriage must be 
restricted to male-female couples destroys the essential nature of the sacrament. It reduces this 
gracious act of God to something merely physical or biological and also it restricts the 
sacraments of Christ and hinders the work of the Holy Spirit. The supporters of this catholic 
institution say that there simply is no distinction at a sacramental level, and gender is 
considered to be totally irrelevant as far as the sacramental aspect of the relationship is 
concerned. This is a strong argument in favour of same-sex marriages because even the Bible 
says that everybody is God's image: <Q> <R>; <Q> <R>, so it can be deduced 
that God did not made distinctions in sex, race or culture. Therefore, homosexual marriages 
should be allowed. The Ecumenical Catholic Church and the Roman Catholic Church are 
applying what the Bible says whereas other religious institutions are may be not respecting 
the "word of God". 
       However, there are some people that still are against these marriages. They argue 
against homosexual people getting married with the same rights as heterosexual ones. That is 
to say, they must get married with another person of the opposite sex. People against these 
marriages say that homosexual complains about society not letting him/her marry anybody of 
the same sex, it is the same that if a polygamous person complains about he/she is not allowed 
to get married with several women or men. There is not discrimination, the law should be 
equal for all and the society has a standard marriage which has demonstrated its effectiveness 
along centuries. Furthermore, people against same-sex marriages argue that these kinds of 
marriages are a social novelty which has never been seen in any other society. Ancient 
cultures such as the Greek one, which understood marriages as a stable union between a man 
and a woman in order to have children, allowed homosexuality at certain ages and in certain 
social classes. For them, citizen's sexual practices were separated from the notion of family, 
generation and children's education. Homosexuality has adopted several forms in different 
societies; nevertheless, homosexuality has never been related to marriage. Moreover, some 
people argue that same-sex marriages must not be allowed because homosexual people are 
believed to be promiscuous and have many relationships, so those who are against same-sex 
marriages ask themselves how many times these people will get married and will divorce. 
They argue that this cannot be good for society because new costumes are created and new 
generations will learn attitudes that are immoral. This is a weak argument because as I said 
before, society has experimented changes that nowadays are unquestionable, and now, the 
acceptance of homosexual marriages is only a step more in the evolution of society. 
Moreover, heterosexual people are also believed to be promiscuous. In fact, some of these 
people have divorced several times and their attitude has not been questioned by the rest of 
society either they have not been forbidden to get a new marriage, to have children or to adopt 
them, whereas these rights are forbidden to a heterosexual person, who can or not be 
promiscuous, simply by the fact of their sexual orientation.
       
       Regarding same-sex unions, there are people who are in a mid position. Some people 
are in favour of these marriages because they argue that homosexual people should have the 
same rights in order to receive a state pension or for the inheritance in case of decease of one 
of the member of the couple or simply the right to marry if they want. Nevertheless, these 
people think that instead of marriages they should be called unions because since the 
beginning of society the word "marriage" has been used to appoint the union between a man 
and a woman. The idea of having the same right of inheritance or receiving a widow's 
pension is strong because everybody should have the same rights since homosexual people 
also pay taxes. It is not fair that homosexuals' duties are not questioned by their sexual 
orientation, whereas their rights are conditioned by their sexuality. On the other hand, the 
argument of calling "marriage" these unions is weak because it is only a terminology question 
and speaking about freedom and rights, issues like this are not important. Homosexual people 
are not asking for their unions are called "marriage", they are claiming for their rights.
       
       Others are in favour of these marriages but they are still reluctant to accept them 
because they do not know how this change will affect society. They think that these marriages 
will change the notion of family and these unions are only a step more in the disappearance of 
the institution of family such as it is nowadays understood. This a weak argument because the 
institution of family is now disappearing since every time there are more one-parent families, 
or families with divorced parents, and so on. Therefore, homosexual families would not be the 
cause of the destruction of the traditional family. 
       
       In conclusion, we can see that there are different arguments defending and 
condemning same-sex marriages but there are also mid-positions regarding these kinds of 
unions. Some of them deal with these unions arguing that homosexual people should have the 
same rights as heterosexual ones. Rejecting them the right of getting married is like denying 
them freedom rights. These marriages are only an evolution, since marriage has changed 
allowing new ways such as interracial marriage, divorce and so on. Moreover, some catholic 
institutions, such as the Ecumenical Catholic Church and the Roman Catholic Church, are in 
favour of these marriages arguing that the core of marriage is not sex, but love between 
members of the couple. For this reason God blessed marriage. The most common arguments 
against these unions come also from conservative religious people. They say that these 
marriages attempt against the continuity of human race and also they attempt against the 
concept of family that we nowadays have. Moreover, it is argued that the legalisation of these 
unions will produce a reduction in the number of marriages because people can think that 
every kind of family is acceptable. Considering all these reactions it might be reasonable to 
think that homosexuality is something that has always existed and it is now when we are more 
conscious about this, so it is the ideal moment in which society must move forward in order to 
accept these people and give them the rights that have been refused for many years, because 
they are human beings and they must not be conditioned by their sexual relations. 



