

      Prostitution is a problem that exists in society for many centuries. Sometimes, it 
can be heard that prostitution is the oldest job in the world. There are different levels of 
prostitution, from higher class call girls to streetwalkers. Call girls tend to have higher 
levels of education, more control over their lives and usually come from privileged 
backgrounds. They also make substantially more money than streetwalkers. 
Streetwalkers are the lowest form of prostitution and the women are likely to be 
controlled by pimps as well as be subjected to violence more than other classes of 
prostitutes. Nowadays is when society is becoming more conscious about the problem 
of prostitution and the consequences that it carries on, such as expansion of mafias, 
pimps, and so on. Moreover, it is being questioned if prostitution should be legalised in 
order to protect women from mafias, pimps and Sexual Transmission Illnesses (STIs) 
and also to give them fiscal coverage. In this essay, I am going to discuss different 
points of view concerning the legalisation of prostitution and I will give my personal 
opinion about this issue.
	
      Some people argue that legalisation of prostitution could help women to have 
better live conditions <R>. Some prostitutes who work in the 
streets are forced by their pimps to have sex with anyone and in many occasions there 
are raped, struck and forced to make any sexual practice.  Some agreements should be 
established in order to regulate the sexual acts, that is to say, prostitutes should decided 
the people who they want to have sex or the sexual acts that they want to offer. Besides, 
they should pay taxes and a fixed labour day. The aim of this is that they could have 
benefits when they become older or when they are ill. Many women work in 
prostitution voluntarily because they earn more money. 

	I totally agree with this argument because the work conditions of prostitutes 
should be better. Many prostitutes work in prostitution because they do not have any 
other job and probably they do not like that job. Due to this fact, they should have legal 
coverage in certain cases like other workers of other professions. In many cases they 
have to maintain a children or a family and if they are not legalised they cannot receive 
any economic support in order to cover their daily expenses or to help their families.  
Moreover, they should be the ones who choose the type of sexual services which they 
want to offer as well as the prices. I believe that prostitutes need to be dignified and the 
application of these measures can help to it.  

	However, many people are against legalisation because it not only legalises 
prostitutes but also pimps and mafias. Janice G. Raymond gives ten reasons for not 
legalizing prostitution <R>. The first reason that she gives is that 
legalization of prostitution is good for pimps, traffickers and the sex industry. Janice G. 
Raymond argues that <Q>. She says that <Q>. She also says that legalisation would benefit pimps and men 
who buy women for sexual activities. Pimps are legal businessmen who take benefits 
from women and men who buy women are accepted as legitimate consumers of sex.
	Another reason that Janice G. Raymond gives is that this legalisation is not 
useful to control sex industry, it expands it. In countries such as Netherlands, the 
legalisation has contributed to increase this kind of business. Nowadays, the sex 
industry represents 5 per cent of the Netherlands economy.  Besides, in Netherlands 
there are recognised sex businesses and prostitution clients that collaborate with the 
government. In the State of Victoria in Australia, <Q>. An example of this is that in 1989 there were 
40 legal brothels and in 1999 three were 94. Another ways of sexual exploitation are the 
services of tabletop dancing, bondage and discipline centres, peep shows and sex 
phones. These services together pornography are much more profitable in the current 
present days. 

	Janice G. Raymond also argues that the legalisation of prostitution does not 
promote women's health. She says that legalized brothels or other controlled 
prostitution establishments protect women with the imposition to use condom. Despite 
this obligation, in many occasions condom is not used because some men pay more 
money in order to maintain sex without protection. Actually, the obligation to use 
condoms is a women's choice since the offer of extra money is a strong pressure. There 
are many factors that play against the use of condom, such as, the necessity of money to 
earn more money; older women are not so attractive to men; competition with places 
where condoms are not required; pimps' pressure to maintain sexual acts without using 
it in order to make more money; the need to obtain money due to the fact different 
addictions to drugs or to pay the pimp; and the general lack of control that prostitutes 
have over their bodies. 

	In my opinion, Janice G. Raymond is right respect some points of legalisation of 
prostitution, but I believe that in some opinions against prostitution she is quite radical. 
I think that it is true that legalizing not only benefits prostitutes but also pimps, brothels 
and other people and places related with sex industry. However, I think that if an 
adequate policy was applied would be more beneficial to women than others. I believe 
that if governments help prostitutes giving them some place where they could exert 
prostitution without depending from any brothel or pimp. They should be places like a 
hotel, where only prostitutes without pimps would be allowed and only in that places 
could be legal prostitution, brothels and other similar premises should be illegalised. I 
supposed that doing some policy like this prostitutes would be their own bosses and 
they would not have the necessity to depend on pimps or brothels to earn money, and 
also, in this way the proliferation of brothels and other ways of sexual exploitation 
could be avoided. The way by which these places could be financed should be that 
clients paid a quantity of money fixed by government. Moreover, I think these places 
should also be beneficial for clients because the conditions of hygiene should be better 
because the Health Ministry would be ordered to establish rules of sanitation that should 
be applied meticulously and verified daily by workers of the ministry. I strongly believe 
that applying some policy similar to this, women would be dignified and it would be 
more difficult to the sex industry to obtain benefits from prostitution. Nevertheless, it is 
obvious that these measures would not mean the definitive disappearance of illegal 
prostitution, but it could be hardly fought by means of the creation of patrols 
exclusively dedicated to persecute the people who benefit from illegal prostitution, 
applying hard laws and making sure the total fulfilment of the pains. 

      According to the article <R>, prostitution has decreased in five years. In Stockholm, the number of 
prostitutes has been reduced in two thirds and the number of clients in 80 per cent. 
Besides, in other Swedish cities the sexual commerce almost has disappeared. The same 
has happened with brothels and massage houses that appeared during the last three 
decades of the 20th century, when prostitution was legal. The policy adopted by Sweden 
in order to reach this these decreases of prostitution consists of penalizing the purchase 
of sexual services and decriminalize the sell of them. Furthermore, the Swedish 
government supplies a great number of funds set aside for social services addressed to 
women who want to abandon prostitution. Moreover, this government also educates 
population in this issue. In addition to this, this country considers prostitution as a way 
of violence against women, therefore, men are penalised and women are treated as 
victims.

      I strongly believe that the policy adopted by Sweden is effective. It is a good 
way to make that population realises that prostitution is not an honourable way to earn 
money. I think that legalisation could mean that prostitution is a common job and 
decriminalisation could incite to teenagers to work in it. However, the illegalisation of 
sexual commerce, considering the purchase of sex as something illegal and a way of 
violence, helps to make population conscious about the real problem that this issue has, 
that is to earn "easy money" and the risk of suffering from ETIs. I think that the 
measure of helping women who want to abandon prostitution is a great step that every 
government should adopt. I believe that in some occasions, prostitutes do not leave 
prostitution because they do not have another better job in order to maintain themselves 
or their families. I suppose that if every government supplies some kind of fund to help 
these women, giving them a new job or teaching them a new trade, the rate of 
prostitution would be reduced notably. Nevertheless, in some occasions, women cannot 
abandon prostitution because they are threatened by pimps or mafias. I think that in 
these cases, women should be given a new identity and a new life in another city or 
even in other country in order to avoid that they are found. 
      
      In conclusion, prostitution is a social problem that some governments have tried 
to solve by legalising it. Nevertheless, in some cases this solution has not been a good 
solution because it has been more profitable for sex industry than for prostitutes. In 
addition to this, legalisation is not the solution to avoid ETIs because in some occasions, 
if women receive more money they accept to maintain sexual acts without protection. 
However, Sweden has developed a policy consisting of making illegal the purchase of 
sexual acts and becoming legal the sell of sex. This measure has produced that 
prostitution decreases. Besides, Sweden helps women that want to abandon this job. 
Some personal solutions that I have given in order to reduce prostitution are similar to 
the one adopted by Sweden. However, in the case that some country legalises 
prostitution, I have said that prostitutes should be their own bosses working in places 
where only prostitutes without pimps should be allowed and prostitution should be 
illegal out of these places. I have also said that prostitutes should receive legal coverage 
when they are ill or when they become older. I strongly believe that prostitution is a 
problem that has always existed, but nowadays society is becoming more conscious 
about the true extent of it. I suppose that in a near future, governments will achieve to 
adopt an adequate policy that finishes with prostitution. 

 
 
 
 


4

