
People's idea of entertainment has taken many times peculiar shapes. It didn't always have to be 
laughter, jokes, beauty, competitions that arouse people's interest. They also considered the 
grotesque, cruelty and all sort of bloody events, more than exciting. The baiting of large animals 
such as bulls or bears and fights between dogs or cocks, were historically considered fit 
entertainment for royalty and common people as well <R>.
These practices have developed into actual sports since the 1800 s and have reached our times in 
an age in which civilization, as I see it, should have something to say against these barbaric 
contests. In this essay, I will try to explain why, in my opinion, dog fighting, as well as other so 
called blood sports, should be made illegal all around the world and why laws against this 
practice should be enforced.
 
First and foremost, I would argue that using animals for this kind of shows is an act of pure 
cruelty and a nuisance blood shed. To begin with, dog fighting represents putting two previously 
trained dogs, usually of a Pit Bull breed, in a small area enclosed by plywood walls and 
encourage them to fight until one of the dogs gets killed or is no longer able or willing to 
continue <R>. These fights could last for hours and the dogs end up 
severely injured, if not killed, with nasty bruises and completely worn out due to the substantial 
blood loss. In most of the cases they do not even get veterinary attention. Furthermore, the 
treatment applied to these dogs before and after the fight is inhumane. The owners usually put 
heavy chains round their necks to increase  their muscle mass and subject them to violent training 
to make them vicious. As a matter of fact,  gameness - a dog's willingness or desire to fight - is 
the top trait required in a fight dog <R>. And if they happen to lose they 
are beaten starved to death or even burnt alive. So, from where I stand, this outrageous  practice 
cannot be called a sport.

Secondly, I find an important argument in the threat that this phenomenon represents for our pets 
and other harmless animals. They are used as baits to train game dogs and they are usually stolen 
or obtained through free to good home advertisements <R>. As an enforcement 
to my point of view, I would refer to a case in Arizona which was solved only four years ago. The 
Pima County Sheriff's Department found chewed up bodies of dead dogs in the Arizona desert, 
but it wasn't until later that  they discovered the truth about the killing: stolen family pets were 
being used in bloody training exercises by dog fighting rings <R>.

Moreover, I believe that these terrible contests promote crime. As we are talking about activities 
which have been declared illegal in many countries, they are generally taking place 
surreptitiously. According to recent newspaper reports, dog fighting has been connected to other 
kinds of violence. The promoters of this sport are involved in homicides, drug dealing and 
gambling and due to the large amounts of money present, it is quite frequent to find fire arms and 
other weapons at these events <R>. Yet, I think little is being done to 
stop or to prevent this practice as the minor penalties applied to these outlaws do not represent a 
sufficient deterrent, but simply what they see as part of the cost of doing business. Consequently, 
our safety, it seems to me, is in great danger.

 In addition, my personal opinion is that blood sports and their followers develop a culture of 
violence. On the one hand, being a part of this is, from where I see it, accepting violence as a 
normal aspect of daily life, is finding enthusiasm and sense in breaking the law. According to 
Stephanie La Farge, Ph. D.,  <Q> <R>. On the other hand, I believe it has a great effect upon people, because 
witnessing a dog fight or bear baiting, especially by children or teenagers,   provokes  
<Q> <R>. In rural areas 
of Alabama, for instance, after a traditional hog dog rodeo, children are encouraged to chase the 
terrified and injured animal (the hog had previously been used as bait for a dog) around the pen <Q>. This makes me wonder: Can there be any good in something like this?  What can a 
child learn from the torture of a harmless being?

Nevertheless, there are people who are in favor of these practices, who have considered them  
traditional sports for a long time and who see them as a part of their culture. Cock fighting is 
popular and prevalent in many countries: France, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Belgium, Spain, where 
there are established arenas with seats or bleachers for spectators. These kind of sports are grand 
family events which sometimes include barbecue, music and parking security provided by the 
local sheriff <R>. Furthermore, the "aficionados" of bullfighting sustain 
that this is a battle to the death in which either participant, bull or matador,  may die. But I think 
that the bull doesn't stand a chance from the very beginning <R>. For 
me, the great "corrida" is nothing more than the baiting of a bull that suffers blood loss 
throughout the whole fight and ends up being killed, but which serves as background for the 
exhibition of the matador's skills.

Besides, I am not alone in claiming harsh punishment for what I consider a  serious crime. Since 
1835, when the Protection of Animals Act was passed in London, making dog fighting and all 
other blood sports (bull, bear, badger-baiting, cockfighting) illegal, many associations and 
organizations have done great efforts to deal with this concerning problem: League Against Cruel 
Sports, The Anti-Cruelty Society, Illinois, The Humane Society of the United States. Mostly, they 
try to make people aware of the gravity of the situation  and to encourage the enforcement of the 
animal cruelty laws. Furthermore, the Breeds Specific Legislation is being adopted in many 
countries to restrict the ownership of certain breeds and in the US dog fighting is illegal in 50 
states and a felony offence in 43 <R>. I take these facts as pretty reassuring, yet 
there are still countries that regard these fights as mere misdemeanors and the punishment, in 
most cases, is insufficient and not at all intimidating or threatening as it generally consists of 
fines. 

All in all, blood sports may turn out to be a very controversial subject. On the one hand, there are 
those who take them as part of their culture and traditions. But, from where I stand, they miss the 
essential points of this issue, that is the unreasonable torture of animals for the sake of 
entertainment, the illegal affairs that take place behind these practices, the way in which violence 
is condoned through animal fighting. So what is there to be done? Well, I would say trying to 
educate people into seeing the important part they play in this situation. They are the only ones 
that can put an end to these cruel form of entertainment by either warning the local police if they 
happen to notice something unusual (barks, great number of people, loud music, strange noises) 
in their neighborhoods (especially in warehouses, abandoned buildings) or by backing up  the 
organizations in demanding a greater involvement from the authorities regarding this matter.






                                 
