People's opinion regarding premarital sex has changed substantially during the last few decades. In 
1963, 75% of young unmarried women and 40% of young unmarried men were virgins. In 1984, 43% 
of such women and 28% of such males were virgins. Today 75% of single women are having sex and 
for 85% of recent college students, to marry a virgin is not important anymore. (Premarital Sex...The 
Situation, 2005) Taking these facts into consideration, it would seem that people are tending to 
become more open- minded towards their sexual behaviour. Yet, whether it is ok or not to have sex 
before marriage is still a common question between teenagers and couples. In this essay, I intend to 
present the situation of premarital sex nowadays and to analyse the different arguments that this 
controversial issue gives rise to.

To begin with, maybe the most powerful argument people use to condemn sex before marriage is 
morality in terms of principles and religion. In the Bible, premarital sex is referred to as "fornication", 
which means <Q> and is considered 
as much of  a sin as adultery. In 1 Corinthians, 6: 13, for instance, it is specified that the body is not 
meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord. Likewise, in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 3 stands for the 
banishment of every hint of sexual immorality, greed or any kind of impurity among the people of 
God <R>. In order to enforce this argument, some people point to the 
fact that God's intention was not to deprive unmarried couples of the pleasure of sex, but to protect 
them from encountering problems they were not prepared for, like unwanted pregnancies <R>. Of course, religion is fundamental for the society and it should not be 
ignored. Yet, it could be said that the Bible was written a long time ago and today things are markedly 
different. Sexuality is no longer a taboo for most of the people. 

Moreover, there are not only moral aspects to take into account when it comes to premarital sex. 
People should be aware that serious problems like AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases (STD), 
unwanted pregnancies, abortion are more frequent in these cases. One reason for the increase of these 
risks could be the fact that sex before marriage usually involves more than one partner and that partner 
can either be the fiancé or a perfect stranger. Statistics are more than alarming: 50 % of the people 
who currently have HIV are between the ages of 15 and 24 <R>; one 
out of every 25 high school students has a STD; 57 % of all US pregnancies are unplanned or 
unwanted; 80 % of teenaged mothers are unwed; the approximately 4 - 6 million sexual active 
American teenaged girls have 400.000 abortions each year <R>. 
Naturally, these facts are powerful enough to provoke feelings of uncertainty and doubt in many 
people, but it can be argued that proper protection can prevent these things from happening. After all, 
condoms have a security percent of 85.  

Leaving aside the physical effects, to have intercourse before marriage is a decision that often implies 
many emotional changes. Among the most common reactions are the feelings of guilt, embarrassment, 
distrust, resentment, lack of respect. It all depends on what every person expects from his/her first 
sexual experience and from his/her relationship. A recent study shows that <Q> <R>.Some people 
consider that it is better to have sex when there is love and commitment because this way you will not 
feel like a mere sexual object, while for others sex is an adventure and it helps separate love from lust, 
leaving no room for disappointments <R>. Yes, sex can be a great 
emotional challenge in some cases, but a generalization should be avoided. There are many people 
who find it fun, pleasurable and exciting. 

Nevertheless, those who are in favour of premarital sex consider that it is a way of knowing your 
partner better, of strengthening your relationship and of finding out if you are sexually compatible 
before jumping into marriage. For instance, 90% of engaged couples say sex helped improve their 
relationship <R>. This way, they have the chance to discover what 
they want from each other, what makes them feel happy and fulfilled, both physically and emotionally. 
It is also considered that knowing everything there is to know about your partner before you choose to 
get married, reduces the risk of a divorce. Better yet, <Q> <R>. 
This point of view seems very reasonable, but it can be argued that marriage in itself represents a way 
of discovering day by day the person you share your life with.

Furthermore, many people sustain that modern society is very likely to accept premarital sex, as every 
person has the right to choose her/his sexual lifestyle. Statistics say that 63 % of youth, between the 
ages of 14 and 21, are sexually active <R>. So why not join the 
crowd? If in the past people used to get married very early (at the age of 16 approximately), now the 
situation is very different. Women and men take this important step later and later, with the average 
age being somewhere around 25 years old <R>. So 10 up to 15 
years can pass before the actual wedding and this represents for many people too long a period to do 
without sex. Their policy is to enjoy sex for the mere sake of pleasure, for the taste of adventure it 
gives and to save love and commitment for marriage. This perspective is pretty common nowadays. 
Still people have to be sure that the possibility of getting a bad reputation and of being considered 
immoral does not act as a drawback in their case <R>.

There are also people who consider that getting acquainted to sex only inside of marriage, and 
consequently knowing only one partner, can call forth feelings of frustration, tension and insecurity. 
Among the most common questions that arise in this situation are the following: What if there is no 
compatibility between your partner and you, what if she/he wants more from you that you can offer, 
what if your first experience is painful or traumatic? You are already bound to that person, there is no 
way back and you find yourself trapped in an unhappy marriage, wondering what it would have been 
like if you had met other people. The option of divorce will probably not make much of a difference 
because the damage is already done. Naturally, the risk of making a bad choice exists whenever you 
decide to put your entire faith in one person, but there is also a great chance of finding in that person 
your soul mate.

Anyway, when dealing with such a controversial issue, other points of view should be taken into 
account, besides from the more radical ones already mentioned. For instance, many people wonder 
how far they can go before marriage. <Q> <R>. Yet, 20 % of young people are of the opinion that oral sex is not sex so they 
consider it acceptable <R>. Some people think it is ok to engage in 
premarital sex as long as you are fully aware of the implications and you use proper protection 
(condoms, birth control pills). On the other hand, some adults argue that mentioning STDs and 
pregnancy prevention would only create confusion, whereas proposing abstinence would be more 
effective <R>. Another condition for allowing sex before marriage is 
engagement; because this way you can remain faithful to the person you will share your life with. 
However, there are people who sustain that it is up to every person to decide when she/he feels ready 
for having intercourse.

Without any doubt, everybody has the right to an opinion and what is good for one person might be 
bad for another. Consequently, these last few perspectives cannot be taken for general truths. Oral sex 
is sex after all if you consider the fact that it can give you a STD. Furthermore, condoms and oral 
contraceptives do not offer 100 % protection. The Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) is an incurable 
sexually transmitted disease, which can cause cervical cancer in women and worst of all, condoms do 
not protect against it <R>. In what concerns engagement as a compulsory condition for 
having sex, it can be said that promises are made to be broken, so there is no guarantee that your 
fiancé will actually be the one you marry. And finally, how do you know when you are ready? How do 
you know it is not public pressure that makes you take the decision?

All in all, debates about premarital sex are far from reaching an agreement. On the one hand, there are 
those who consider it a sin, who argue that the risks of contracting a possible disease are higher in this 
case and who sustain the emotional changes involved are quite hard to bear. On the other hand, 
premarital sex is said to be a good way of strengthening a relationship, of finding out what every 
person needs in order to be happy and of enjoying sex for the mere sake of pleasure. Consequently, a 
solution should not be looked for in a possible consensus between the two sides involved in this issue, 
but in a better education on this matter. People should take into consideration all the implications of 
premarital sex before taking a decision.
