
Nowadays in Spain, the issue of the private copy canon  has been passionately attacked  and furiously defended by the different collectives affected. The private copy canon is a tax applied to different recording means and whose collection is received by authors, editors, productors and artists in compensation for the copies made out of their work. It was registered for the first time in the Spanish legislation in the 22/1987 Law of Intelectual Property, November 11. It also appears in the 25th article of the rewrited text of the Spanish Intelectual Property Law (Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996, April 12) the compensatory pretension resulting of an alleged affectation of the authors, editors, artists and audiovisual and phonographic patrimonial right, when a purchaser makes copies for private use. The law obliges to do the charge throught the collective gestion entities (SGAE, AIE and AGEDI). Because of that, it is so-called a <Q> . The private copy canon is charged in Spain to the equipment, devices and material manufacturers and importers able to record musical or audiovisual plays. However, the SGAE points that the Intelectual Property Law considers that if in the bill of the distributor, wholesaler or the different retail traders, the canon is not showed explicitly, they will be charged with the canon directly. In 2003 September, the canon begun to be applied to virgin CDs and DVDs as a result of an agreement between the author rights gestion entitites (leaded by the SGAE) and ASIMELEC. <R> . In this essay I will explain why, in my view, the private copy canon is not only a bad idea as concept, but also is being executed in a wrong way.

The first flaw I see, lies in the way the canon has been developed and managed throught the time.When the canon was modified for the first time since 1996, in 2003 each year was modified again to add new possible copy supports or devices able to copy, in 2003 it was the CDs and DVDs, in 2004 the scanners, photocopiers and printers, in 2005 USB memories, external hard disks and memory cards like flash or USB, in 2006 digital cameras both for pictures and for video and 3G mobiles. Now their next target its to charge the very ADSL lines and the WiFi cards and aerials in 2007. In my view this last pretension is almost illegal while the other are basically unfair. A group of private organizations cant try to apply something near a tax, especially taking into account that the agreement between the author rights gestion entitites (leaded by the SGAE) and ASIMELEC was sealed without asking neither the legal authorities nor the consumers associations, just between them. Also this fact is nearly illegal in my opinion. The supports they actually charge from the CDs to the printers or cameras of any kind have an incredible amount of uses absolutely not related to the infringement of copyright, for example if you want to buy a digital camera to record the baptism of your nephew you will pay the canon, and if you want to copy that recrd into a virgin CD you will pay the canon again, however you have not recorded any copyrighted material in any of the supports, I think that this is clearly unfair. Not to talk about the ADSL, we are in the Internet era and they try to charge the very ADSL lines! However this gestion associations claim that their biggest loses come from the download of copyrighted materials from the internet, especially p2p programs (person to person, a kind of software that enables anyone look up for any kind of archive hosted in another pc user of that program and donwload it). They think again, that every record downloaded that way, is a sale lost. And as all that supports could be used to violate their copyrights applying a canon as a preventive metod to alleviate the loses this supports are causing to them.On the other hand we have to consider the statistics, by each record the author percieves 0.83 euros, to percieve, with their own sales, the equivalent amount of money the SGAE (authors) try to percieve by the audio canon (16.512.035 euros) they would need to grow the sales in 19.907.314 recods, that would represent a 30.5 % rise in the sales. In May 2003 the loses in concept of piracy were the 21.3% so a estimation of the units sold in the pirate market gives us the number of 13.905.900 records (the 21.3% of 65.3 million of records sold in 2002), that means an amount not collected of 11.536.676 euros, a sum noticeably inferior to the amount they want to percieve through the CD canon. This means that with the canon they will not only be compensated for piracy loses but that they will have an aditional benefit of 4.975.359 euros. <R>  Also in the management of the money collected by the canon the share that each author percieves is not the same, it is decided arbitrately by the gestion associations, giien more or less money to each author depending on the sales of thier work. However the lists of the most sold legally is not the same as the list of the most sold illegally or downloaded, showing again that is indeed an unfair measure, not only for the consumers, but also for the authors.

In my view, the second flaw in the concept of this canon is the double burden imposed to the purchaser of the different supports and the try to be equivalent the private copy to the massive piracy when they are completely different, the first is legal, the second is not.When a person wants to copy one of their original musical or audiovisual works (specially th musical are the most polemic) they find that original copy, has an anticopy system, so make a private copy is difficult for the most of the people (without computer knowledge), however they have indeed bought a support, where they want to copy the contents for one reason or another (for example if the dont want to carry their cds while travelling, they could be lost or damaged, or if they just want to have a copy in house and another in their work ect.) and by buying that support they have already paid the canon, so the double burden is that having paid a canon that gives them the right to make a private copy, they have to struggle to be able to do that copy avoiding the anticopy system (adding that by Law copy a work with anticopy system is a crime, though private copy is legal, paradoxically). However the Intelectual Rights associations (begining with the SGAE) claim that the private copy make by normal people is minimum, that the true people that copy their work are the piracy mafias, organizations that massively copy this work and sell it illegaly in the street (like the recently famous "top manta"- people illegaly selling copied cds and dvds with intelectual protected work inside). They also think that each illegal copy bought is a legal original not being sold with the damage that entails.But in my opinion this is not only false but also an excuse to apply the canon abusively. In first case it's absurd to think that every person that buys a illegal copied cd or dvd, with an approximated cost between 3 to 6 euros, would buy the same work original when it would cost them about 20 or 30 euros, this is common sense, not every body can afford that, and even less taking into account that in the best situation by this parameters they can buy 3 illegaly copied works (18 euros in total by the higher price) instead one single copy of an original legal work of 20 euros (by the lower price). And secondly the canon is paid by any purchaser indiscriminately , that means that no only people that wants a copy of their original or mafias are affected by the canon, also the educational system, the health system and every single person or institution that uses supports that can contain copied works in their work, or any other activities. This is obviously unfair, and is not only that, but also we have to keep in mind that in the public institutions (as in a lot of areas of our lives) this kind of support are widely extended and by applying the canon this way, directly, enormous amounts of money that should be used to better our dairy lives will be used to pay the canon. They don't want to think that no every support able to contain copied work would be used in that way, but the canon is applied without exception. Finally a tribunal sentence has given the reason to a purchaser, Eduardo Serrano, 55, an architect from Málaga has won a trial against the shop where he bought his virgin cds in July 2005. He reclaimed to be given back to him the price of the canon that compensate the authors for the private copy. He even argumented that a cd would be used to contain the record of that very trial without the infringement of the copyright of any author or work. <R> 

So to conclude, I have explained how the canon was approved in an unilateral way, how it affects lots of supports able to do much more than just copy protected material indiscriminately, what their abussive pretensions are in the internet area, how this canon is applied accumulatively by several puchases of charged supports, that the society's organizations like health, education and any other is forced to destinate founds to pay the canon when they would have better uses, and recently the tibunals are giving the reasons to the citizens that complain about the canon. In my opinion the aplication of the canon has generated the collective thought that if they force us to pay an unfair canon, we are legitimated to do any number of illegal copies we want, as a retribution, however who really suffers for this attitude, both the canon imposition  and its consequences in the mind of the people, are the authors that want to make a living out of music, because they love the music. 
 






