
    Nowadays we live in a society where fashion plays an important role of influence, with notable consequences as the phenomenon of fashion victims. Fashion victims can be defined as those people who are moved by fashion policy, they are identified by the way they wear (designer logos), and also by the way they live "over the top". But not all the people is in favour if this role of fashion, and fashion victims. In this essay I will discuss about the situation of fashion victims in our society, different point of view about the influence of fashion in society (not only about clothes), by showing different arguments related to the topic, and then I will give my opinion about this arguments and ideas.
    Many people believe that being a fashion victim is a good thing, that only few people can be, this is something like a honour, they are proud of being a fashion victim: <Q> <R> . This argument, from a top model, shows that really there are people who are victims of fashion and see it as a good thing that makes the feel better. I personally believe that this argument is completely stupid, because they have enough money and they can spend it on expensive clothes. They would spend less money on fashion and design clothes if they were not models, they were not so compulsives about fashion. I think that the social position of this "fashion victims" is what makes them feel so.
    
    One example of an argument against fashion, and being a fashion victim are family parents. Those people suffer the consequences of the influence of fashion in young people. <Q> <R> , For these people, being a fashion victim is a bad thing, they are against fashion because it is expensive for them and also because they do not want that they children become it in the future.  I personally believe that this woman has a logical argument to be against fashion victims, because <Q> <R> . Fashion in society plays an important role of influence, so it is very difficult to convince a child that these trainers "x" are as good, as useful as "y" ones, but the big difference is that "y" are apparently better because famous people wears them. My own view is that fashion is a problem among young people, who do not give enough importance to things as the price of fashion, because of that I understand these parents against fashion and fashion victims who want to create a vehicle (fashion) to choose the way of life, without thinking on the consequences.
    In this society in which 91% of the people think that we are victims of the "fashion tyranny"  <R> , and the 7% are completely against the idea,  we also can find neutral attitudes. <Q> <R> .This idea is supported by the fact that people can buy clothes that are in fashion, ( that is not the same as ridiculous, that is what happens with the majority of fashion victims) because they go to a  shop and find something that they really like and they do not pay enormous quantities of money, because they are  not compulsive purchasers as fashion victims are <Q>  <R> 
    The difference between these people and fashion victims is that they do not let that fashion changes their lives. In my opinion, this is the most logical argument related to the topic, in fact I included myself in this group of people, who buy things that are in fashion but never would pay 500 euros for a Gucci bag. I Know that we life in a society that is moved by fashion, we can not be passive people about be fashion, I tend to believe. We can not refuse buying a jacket of the fashion colour because in every shops is the same colour, so if you want the jacket you have to accept the fashionable colours. What I want to say is that it is not necessary to become a fashion victim only if you buy clothes or things that are in fashion this winter, always if you do not change your personality, your style to be fashion. 
    Another important view against becoming fashion victims is when people do not want to follow fashion <Q>  <R> . The fact that fashion influences society is important, those people who do not what majority do; feel that they are doing something wrong; they feel not part of the society because they do not follow fashion. I believe that this idea is truth; it is also motivated by capitalist societies, in which people feel better if they wear trademark cloths. I think that this is something absurd, to feel better simply because you have trademark clothes, but I also recognise that that I am the first person who prefer  a pair of jeans from Zara, that ones from Carrefour, because all of us are little fashion victims although we do not want to be.
    The majority of people in favour of fashion, and fashion victims transmits this ideas to their children, <Q> <R> . These people  who follow fashion tendencies, do not mind spend lots of money on clothes, in fact this is a lifestyle, and then, when children are teenagers  only want trademark clothes. This idea is completely stupid, I can not understand how this people can exit, being so materialistic, and I do not understand how they do not mind that their children are going to be so. I think that is not very appropriate for a child to learn that Gucci shirts are better than Kiddy's Classs ones, and that something that appears ridiculous is not so if it is fashion. For example I can never understand Beckham's family values, here is where the phenomenon of fashion victims starts, motivated by the parent's stupidity.
    Another point of view is teenager's one, in favour of becoming fashion victims as they idols are <Q> <R>  .Some teenagers try to imitate starts and VIPs , buying magazines about fashion, beauty and health, where they can find the suggestions they need to imitate they idols. In my opinion this is not something appropriate, not only because they have not their own style and ideas, it is because in a few years there will be no more different characters and ideas among teenagers, they will be like robots who do what most people do.
    The last argument against fashion is based on the idea that something new and fashion is better than the old one, although the old one is perfectly useful.   <Q> <R> . This woman is completely against fashion and being a fashion victim because she does not know how to explain to her children that their devices are as good as the new ones. I understand and agree with this woman, but the problem is that today there are parents that buy new mobiles to their children when they take a fancy to the new mobile, and then children do not understand why their friend's parents are not like their parents. I do not think buying the latest mobile phone or the trendiest things can help us to improve the whole world, but it only makes us lose our personalities and, in the case of children, lose values as value what they have. 
    So then, there are many arguments concerning the phenomenon of fashion and influence in society. The main arguments in favour are those from models, VIPs, and teenagers, who see fashion as a good thing and follow it without thinking the consequences of it. On the other hand, fashion is seen as a problem, as a bad thing to be against of, by parents who are victims of the influence of fashion on children. They are affected by it because their children want to follow the fashion with the idea of what it is fashion is better, without seeing the bad things (price). On balance some people admit that fashion is something very important in our society, which influences our life, they are conscious of it and do not let that it changes their personality, lifestyle.... I believe that the main problem of  being/ not being a fashion victim is that we have forgotten the most important values in which we should believe, and we act moved by fashion. More and more often people wear a mask to appear different and be fashion, and that people is not as they have been before, now they are what fashion has done. So I think that if we do not put rear gear    , in a short time, our personalities and lifestyles will disappear and only what fashion calls, will exit. 





