    Nowadays we live in a society where sex plays an important role that can have many different consequences, so sex education is every time more and more necessary. Sex has long been considered a taboo issue, that has many consequences as AIDS or unwanted pregnancies that could be avoided with the right sexual education. In our society more sex education is needed to help the prevention of these problems. In this essay I will discuss about the situation of sex education in schools and family, by showing the types of viewpoints in relation with different ideas and opinions about the issue, considering the consequences of having or not this education.
    Many people believe that Comprehensive Sexuality Education brings up age appropriate sexuality topics and covers the main necessary information. First because they feel the necessity to be fully aware of what sex is. Second, because they want to be sure that the children are receiving information and education that will be useful in their futures. And third, because they are sure that they as parents will be prepared to answer questions that their children may have. This seems to be a logical argument, because with this education children have a complete sexual education, they are taught by a specialist, and the parents do not have to do this labour. This is interesting because sometimes, parents only tell children what they want children know and this education is more complete and appropriate for teenagers, because they have all kind of information about sex, STDs, contraceptives, masturbation, body image...and with this knowledge they will know what exactly sex is.
    One of the most common arguments against Comprehensive Sexuality Education is which is in favour of Abstinence-only until marriage programmes. This type of education, emphasizes abstinence from all sexual behaviour and  do not cover information on contraceptives, masturbation...This point of view is supported by many religious groups that have an anti- sex  perspective of life . This type of education is adapted to the ideology of these groups, catholic ones that believe in the abstinence, not in sex before marriage, so because of that these people are against the Comprehensive Sexuality Education. These arguments can be consider old-fashioned , considering that in a 21st Century society, sex in general is not considered as something to do after marriage. This idea is based in silence and <Q> <R>. This argument might be ineffective if it is compared with the other type of sex education that does not see sex as horrible and bad thing unless it takes places in a monogamous marriage.
    
    It seems generally agreed by the majority of parents, to receive a Sexual Education that gives the child knowledge of sex, but in a general view. These people defend an education that teach children what sex is and that keep them informed. Also these people are against and education that incites to sex, because children feel that they know all about sex and now have to practise the theory. These parents want that their children be familiarised with sex but not by knowing too much. This appears to be a convincing   argument because parents are who decide how much their children have to know about the issue, not the school. It is a good idea that the child gets a base about sex in school and then at home, his parents decide what more he must know about it, without leaving to friends or media the sexual education of the child.
    
    Another neutral attitude towards sex education would be this one that sees sex education as a measure to prevent AIDS and unwanted pregnancy. First, they consider sex as an issue to be treated in our society, because by the knowledge of the issue. Many pregnancies can be prevented. These people are not probably in favour that their children have sex before 20s, but <Q> <R> . This argument seems to make sense because <Q> <R> . So parents prefer that children be informed rather than be in favour of abstinence. But this argument could be consider  useless, because many of the teenagers who have sexual relationships, do not use contraceptives, and perhaps these teenagers know that they have to use this. So, with these facts, is seen that sex education not always works.
    
    The general view of the religious groups is always against sex education. This idea is also supported by the conservative population, who are in favour of abstinence until marriage education. These groups are ideologically motivated to be against sex. The do not consider sex as a subject to be studied in school. They prefer teaching religion, coexistence, and solidarity, as values to become an adult motivated by the Christian church. In this education there is not place to sex. The attitude could be considered appropriated, respecting the religious attitude towards life, considering chastity as one of the most important values to become an adult. On the other hand, this point of view could seem quite confusing, because <Q> <R> , and always there is curiosity to the unknown, and probably these children form religious schools are in contact with people who has received sex education. Now these children have a problem they are misinformed about sex, only by their parent's morality. But this is not the only problem of not having a sex education; the question is <Q> <R> . 
    Also, some catholic sectors create bad-formed conscience based on the chastity as abstinence to avoid  the problem. So, perhaps they have to consider that their "religious" students are subordinated to society and simply by avoiding the problem, we can not solve it.
    
    Another important sex education is family education about sex. A recent study indicates that in many cases, the majority of parents do not talk directly about sexuality with children. In the majority of homes, sex is associated with the bad, taboo and the forbidden. When parents talk with children about the topic, they only refer to menstruation, and weak forms to express social expectative as becoming adults. In addition, is important that in many cases the girl receives more information about sex than the boy, <Q> <R> . This kind of education can be considered as something ineffective, parents could be good educators but not the best. Each family has its own values, but they have to consider that in family, although children can learn a lot about sex, parents only reflects in children the general view of sex, the taboos, and roles. 
    On the other hand, many parents do not trust plenty in sex education which receive their children in school. In school, children can learn a lot of sex, but in a formal way based on the biological view. In many cases children are not in contact with sexuality, in some aspects as masturbation, homosexuality and contraceptive. This is always motivated by the conflict with religious attitudes against sex. A minority of parents are opposed to sex education in family because they prefer to avoid the dialogue about sex, a topic that they consider as something controversial. They do not want to analyse with children sexuality, problems and solutions, because they consider that sex is something to be explain by sexual educators that can convince easily the children.
    It is apparently true that sex educators know a lot about sex, but not always what is taught in school is the best. This means that parents can not be in a passive attitude with the situation, they do not want to be personally involved with sex education of their children. <Q> <R> . Parents are the best example for children, so they have to talk about this with children at home, and stay always with them as the best guides.
    
    To sump up, there are many attitudes to the types of sex education. The main arguments in favour are that opinions of modern society, parents that want awareness on the issue to prevent problems in the future, as the result of not having the correct sex education. On the other hand, sex education is considering something bad and forbidden by the church, religious and conservative groups of society, who prefer an education based on the abstinence. On balance, sex education is today very useful to prevent AIDS and unwanted pregnancies, as consequences of an inadequate education. This education should be done according by the ideology of the child, the ideology of his/her family, who plays an important role in this education. But all this, must be done always considering sex as one of the most current issues of the 21st Century society, that can bring important consequences if is not known properly.
    

    
    

