

                      Throughout the history, crimes have been always current and justice has been always trying to put the end of those crimes, but not always in a successful way. Justice- the legal system that a country uses in order to deal with people who break the law- as its name indicates must be just, fair, with the situation, the law and with people related and victims of crimes, because that is its function, to make justice in unfair situations. However, in this essay I tend to put forward my opinion against Spanish Justice that I think isn't really fair according to some examples of real cases of this unfair Justice.
      Firstly, I personally believe that today, Spanish Justice is too weak and with this kind of justice, we never can finish with the problems like murders, drugs. Justice in Spain has to act in a harder way, without giving much freedom to the accused, because if they do not see that they have been accused hardly, and they have small sentences, they will not have any problem to do the same crime again because the punishment has not been too hard. Some people think that only with little punishment the accused   can see the danger and change his conduct, because if he has committed a small non-fulfilment he can not go to prison because the punishment has to be adjusting with the committed crime. However I think that judges' attitudes must be more severe to become more effective and only concede freedom to the innocent, because he is the only who is really regretful and is not going to do the same, and is also far from corruption.
       My opinion is also supported by the fact that when the sentences are back many of them are not fair according with the committed crime. One example of this is the Farruquito's case; condemned to two sentences of eight months in prison for being the guilty of the mortal accident of a pedestrian, and he was driving without driving licence. He also has condemned with the monetary compensation to the victim's family. However, the magistrate who studies the case, has reduced the sentence of the man as she said: <q> <r>. I think that this is like a gibe to the victim's family, the man died in the accident and now the guilty of his death has the possibility to reduce his sentences to a ridiculous one, it must not be possible if justice were fair.
      According to the judge, until the judgement is celebrated, in some cases the accused can have the right of probation, as something provisional until the decisive judgement is celebrated. That happens when the reasons, the crime or the guilty neither are nor clear enough, and according to the law, they have the right of be free until the judgement takes place.
      In my opinion it is really incredible, justice must see that it is an injustice for the family of the innocent part of the crime, to see in the street (like a normal person) their father's murderer. That happened in the Spanish village of Camporedondo (Jaen), when a man caused an auto knocking down, provoking the death of a man, and some days later he stabbed to another person from the same village. Something like that never can happen if the first time that this person committed the first crime would had been put in prison (provisionally) and so the second crime could be avoid.
      Apart from all these injustices that I can see in the Spanish System, there is one that I strongly disagree with; the possibility to reduce the sentence when the judgement is celebrated or during the duration of the sentence because of their good conduct in prison. Rodriguez Zapatero mentioned recently the possible reduction of the sentence to " De Juana" (member of ETA accused of several murders, 25, and many threats to the Spanish Government) from 96 years to a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 13 years un prison, because his conduct is now being cuestionated and <q> <r>.
      I think that must not exists the possibility to reduce the sentence to a person that has committed 25 murderers, because I am convinced that when this person obtains his freedom in 13 years, he probably will take up the arms causing new murderers. With sentences like this, criminals will never have any qualms to kill again o simply to provoke new crimes, because they have seen how cheap is the price of the crime.
       Moreover, I feel that another injustice of the system is the possibility of buying the freedom of the condemned. In some cases like <r> Some people have been accused of crimes of property speculation, and have been sentenced to remain 20 years in prison, are now at their homes, having paid the quantity of 60000 Euros, a big amount of money to buy their freedom. Many people tend to believe    that it can be a solution, considering that money is one of most appreciated material goods, because these people from Marbella have seen the consequences of their crime, stay in prison some weeks, and then by loosing so much money to be free and now they can do the same un future. These people must think that we are talking about criminal, political corruptions who are very ambitious that haven't got any prejudice to do the same because they have seen the easiness with they have obtain another time their freedom, without the suffering of reaming many years in prison to think over.
      Some people feel that in some cases, when the accused suffers mental problems (schizophrenia), the prison could be a danger to the health. That happened some days ago in Barcelona, when a young couple abuse sexually of their small child and they haven't go to prison because they have mental problems and depressions, and they only have been affected by a restraining order without seen the small child again. In my opinion these people must be in prison since they were arrested, and if they have mental problems, they surely can be looked after in prison where there are doctors. I can not understand how a judge can dictate this simple sentence to people like these only because of their illness, because according to this, all criminals would argue that they have mental and because of that they have committed a crime.
      Another interesting thing is the problem with crimes committed by immigrants that are growing up every day. We live in a country where the justice is not hard enough compared with the justice of other countries where exits punishments like the death penalty. Many people believe that death penalty is a violation of the human rights an it should not exists as a legal system of punishment because there are other alternatives of punishment as the total loss of freedom, to the most important and serious crimes. However I believe that if the death penalty existed now in Spain many criminals would take seriously Spanish justice and these types of crimes would be reduced, because they are used to harder sentences of justice.
      To conclude, I have tried to show my personal opinion about the Spanish Justice, something that I consider that nowadays is not being fair enough, because of the sentences, the treatment of the accused and the deliberations of the magistrates who I think are "soft" to the present society in the 21st Century. I tend to believe that Spanish Justice must be something prestigious as the main part of the democratic state where we live, and it has to act with more guarantees and in another way, in a harder one to be taken seriously by the criminal.
      
      

      


