      Division of labour is described as the specialisation of cooperative labour in specific, circumscribed tasks and roles, intended to increase efficiency of output. <R>  The first known division of labour in human history was that established between men and women in the stone age when men where the ones that hunted and women the ones in charge of bringing up children. During world war two women in the fighting countries had to take men's jobs in factories while they were away fighting. Working was not new to women. Women have always worked, especially minority and lower-class women. However, the cultural division of labour by sex ideally placed white middle-class women in the home and men in the workplace. The inclusion of women in factory's work was most notorious in the US due to the large amount of contracts to supply armament signed before the States entered the war. The US government even launched a propaganda campaign to convince women to work in factories. Women were needed, but this situation was regarded as temporary. While the image of the woman worker was important during the war, the pre-war image of women as wives and mothers by no means disappeared. Mainstream society accepted temporary changes brought about by a war, but considered them undesirable on a permanent basis. The public reminded women that their greatest asset was their ability to take care of their homes and that career women would not find a husband <R> . During World War II there was a change in the image of women, but it was only superficial and temporary. The reality was that most women returned to being homemakers during the prosperity of the 1950s. However, the road taken by women in the work force during World War II continued into the future. Society had changed. According to the United Nations reports <R>  nowadays women share a bigger part in the working world but still they haven't got the same access to paid work. Women and men are concentrated in different sectors and occupations, often due to sex-based stereotypes and although Entrepreneurship has risen in the recent years among woman they still are the first collective to be affected by unemployment in areas where work opportunities are lacking. The gender division of labour is a phenomenon found virtually in all human societies <R> . Due to the importance of this phenomenon many experts such as scientist, anthropologists and economist have tried to discover the causes and meaning of it. Therefore, in this essay I will discuss three points of view regarding gender based labour division.
       First, I would like to note scientists opinion's about male and female differences and how this differences could condition a person's performance in a certain task. In 2006 a report was made public by the National academy of science <R> <Q> . The report pleaded for an equalitarian treatment of male and female workers in scientific & Technologic working industry. Nevertheless there isn't an agreement in the scientific community on this point. The disagreement comes from Professor Simon Baron-Cohen's book "The Truth About the Male and Female Brain" In his book Baron-Cohen divided the human brain into two types: empathaiser and systematizers. Systematizer's brain works in a way that makes scientific research's success more possible, while empathaisers tend to be more adept at reading non-verbal communication and judging character. According to Baron-Cohen's research 53% of men have systemizing brains compared to 17% of women. Taking into account this data Katrina Boydon - expert in microbiology- says  <Q> <R> . In her article Boydon argues that there is no discrimination in the scientific world against woman, she explains that the fact that they are promoted more slowly and received fewer honours is due to the fact that they are not systematizers, not because of their gender. In this sense Dr Boydon is in favour of a Division of labour favouring systematizer brain subjects in the field of science and research. Nevertheless some might argue this ideas to be dangerous as they could help the increase women's discrimination by giving the industries yet another reason to hire and promote more men than women.
      The second field of expertise which has an inner discussion in what regards to gender based division of labour is anthropology. Dr Kuhn and Dr Stiner <R>  explains that the division of labour was the reason why modern humans were able to survive during the age in which Neanderthals disappeared. The fact that woman stayed at home providing fallback food by means of recollection and hunting of small animals, while men haunted big preys, was a key factor for early humans surviving. However, there is no paleonthological proof that this division was made in basis of gender. On the other hand the fact that almost all modern  known groups of humans divides labour the same way makes it likely that the division of labour was the same in the past. This means that division of labour was a big advantage during the Stone Age. But many may ask, is this division still profitable for humanity? Or even so, is it fair? Studies has shown that in almost all societies women work longer hours than men <R>.  In developed countries this phenomena has been studied. In a recent survey carried in the US we find that the working force is nowadays constituted by both men  and woman: the percentage of women who work outside the home has climbed from 50 percent in 1970 to 76 percent in 1995. Still working mothers play a bigger part on the house chords than men do. According to the survey women do 20 hours of work per week, compared to 10 men do <R>. Besides, this new family model in which no parent stays at home taking care of children creates problematic scenarios as nearly five million children are home alone after school each week. <R>. Some people thinks that the recent cases of extreme violence among teenagers and children such as the columbine episode are a consequence of parent's lack of commitment to their children's education. Some like Rose Pierre-Louis, social worker in Brooklyn, N.Y thinks that it would be better to return to the 1950's gender roles, when men worked and woman stayed home taking care of the house and the children. <R>. Others may wonder if this is possible, as modern women's identities includes a job or a career. 
      Finally I would like to focus on the economist's opinion about gender and work. Adam Smith, one of the most important thinkers of capitalism who is regarded as the father of modern economics thought that  <Q> <R>. Relating this to the topic of our discussion, the division of labour between male and females would be benefitial for both. Men would be ale to work without worrying about their family and women could take care of the house and stop working double shift. In opposition to this idea we find Karl Marx's definition of alienation, a consequence of labour division which implies the worker becomes <Q> . Marx also described how division of labour is a socially made decision based on power relationships more than actual technical necessity <R>. In the case of Gender based division of labour this would apply to the patriarchal structure of western societies where men get the prestige position of the worker, and women stays home in a subordinate position. 
      In conclusion, we have seen that in the 3 fields of expertise analysed there isn't a firm or unique position. Scientist, anthropologists and economists presents facts and theories that oppose each other. The scientific facts points at a majority of males with better qualities to pursue successful scientific and technological oriented works. We have also seen how anthropologist base the success of humanity in its first stages of development in gender based division of labour. These opinions relates to Adam Smith's theory about the benefits of division of labour. On the other hand we have seen data and facts about woman discrimination in the working world, and how woman work longer hours especially in non paid works such as housework. Apart from this unfair situation we find Karl Marx's definition of alienation and his theories of labour division being based on social considerations which oppose the pragmatic nature of labour division. The approaching to the theme in this essay has been purely theoretical, and therefore incomplete. To finish, it is important to point out that gender based division of labour also arises many ethical questions that should also be consider in a proper analysis of the phenomena. It is not only a matter of whether is it practical or not to tolerate or support gender based division of labour, but also a matter of whether it is a consistent practice in a democratic country. 

