Drinking in the streets has become an alternative for young people who could not afford the prices charged for drinks in bars and clubs and it also has become a culture in its own right in Spain. <R>  This is called "botellón", which is a group of young people of all types who gather outside to drink homemade cocktails of whiskey and coke or similar beverages with alcohol  <R>  Althogh making "botellón" is an evidence that helps young people to spend less money in Spain, it  has also brought complaints of inconveniente. <Q> <R>   Drinking in streets is a common fact that takes place every weekend in every part of Spain, and as a social issue people has different opinions about it. In this essay I will discuss and analize the several points of view about practicing it. 
   One of the opinions about making "botellón" is the one that agrees it, because it is an alternative for the people that have not enough money to pay alcohol in a bar, just because a glass with alcohol has become more and more expensive in our days, so people prefer buying an alcohol bottle and drink it quietly with his friends. It is not only a little bit cheaper but also you can buy a bottle with the price of two glasses in a bar, and as everybody can know, with a bottle you can have more that 2 glasses. The other reason why people prefer drinking in the streets than in a bar is that they are getting use to serve "garrafón" (which is alcohol with bad quality) in bars instead of the real one. Serving "garrafón" is not only bad for health  but also it is forbidden in Spain. The problem is that waiters refill good bottles with bad alcohol so people do not realice until they are drinking or the day after when the consequences are even worst, when the head explodes, the stomach seems a colander <R>  nausea, bad taste and hyper salivation. <R>  As it seems to me young people will always drink in streets because prices in bars, pubs or discos are so high that they cannot afford them, and from my point of view if the government want to solve this problem they should force bussinessmen to lower the prices and force them not to sell alcohol of bad quality as alcohol of good one. They are being deceptive, lying the customers and even worst, poisoning them, not with rat poison or cianide but with such a bad quality of alcohol that its effects are as if that. <R>   So, logically they prefer to drink in other places, such in streets, parks or squares.
   Nevertheless, there are people who does not support drinking in streets because  of some reasons. One of them is because drinking in a square leaves it dirty, with rubbish and also bad smells because of the alcohol and the urinations people make wherever they want. And also because the consumption of alcohol make people be more agresive and it helps people to fight. All this is added to the fact that wherever there are many people, there are much noise, what is also a problem for the people who lives near this places of making "botellón"; and these people cannot rest in peace and sleep well with all this problems next to their houses, because "botellones" are made at night. But there is also another reason that worries more to the parents than the neighbourhood, and this is the high consumption of alcohol that is realized when they are drinking in streets, because as I said before with the same money of a glass of alcohol in a bar, you can have a bottle outside. This great consumption also bears <Q> <R> .  And parents, in addition to the intoxication try their children not to fall in other current patterns associated with adolescent alcohol abuse, such as violence or sexual risk. <R>  What concerns me is that these people are reasonable and their arguments are true because this fact with so much people bears noise and dirty, and the neighbours do not need to pay for the bad behaviour of the others; so, I think the government has to make places where people can meet to make this kind of events. Nobody can stop drinking in the streets, so they have to resolve the problem and have a solution to make everybody being comfortable with what everybody does about this topic.
   The Spanish government is also against drinking in the streets so it is why they brang in a law.  This law forbids drinking in the street, the sale of alcoholic drinks to people aged under 18 and selling alcohol drinks after 10 p.m. " The aim is to reduce alcohol misuse among Spanish teenagers and to tackle the nationwide fashion known as 'botellón' ". <R> <Q> <R>  This is one of the problems they want to avoid with this law; they want youngs learn to enjoy themselves without alcohol. This law, as other laws, has punishments if people  do not fullfil it. Police is always alert and putting fines that are around 300 € per botellón. And when a person has three fines he pays more or go to a detoxification meeting. But the problem of all this, is that police cannot be everywhere and with this law they cannot stop people to keep drinking in the streets. From my  point of view, it is not logical that people can have a sandwich in the street with a coke instead of a beer. Not for banning they are avoiding the problem, they are parking it in other place, but not solving it. And what is also illogical is that  if an adult person needs for dinner a  bottle of wine and he has realised late he cannot buy it (in a 24 hours shop) after 10 p.m , because of the law. So the government should think about a law that avoids the "botellón" , that is the real problem and not make everybody pay for the others. And finally, another reason why the law does not solve the problem is that teenagers can ask for some adult friends to buy them alcohol; or if they are adults go to the shop before 10 p.m. The government should arouse young minds and teach them alcohol in high quantities is bad for health.
   To conclude, let me summarize the opinions I have mentioned in the essay. There are arguments pro drinking in the streets, because it is an economical fact and also a healtier way than drinking alcohol in some bars, pubs and discos. But  there is also a point of view against this event, because it has bad consequences for the neigbourhood, such as dirty, noises, smells and also it bears a high consumption of alcohol for young people which is bad for their health. This, added to the law against alcohol, which does not work as it should be because it does not solve the problem against drinking outside, it just disguise it. The government acts in such a way that having bring in a law thinks it is the way of leaving us calm and quietly, but the people realise what is happening, because young people still drink in the streets and the problem is not solved. According to my opinion if the government was honest it would treat the problem in other way, such as forcing bars and pubs not to sell bad quality of alcohol instead of good one and, of course, punishing them, not as nowadays; they should build places in where people can drink without disturbing the others, and of course, teaching and arousing young people of the bad consequences that can have having a great consumption of alcohol, just because nobody can stop people to keep drinking alcohol.
   
   
   
   
   


	

