    It is well known for everybody that the percentage of  the teenage births has increased in the last decade. Although nobody accepts it, this fact is going up and up and few people takes care about it. Researches indicate that teenagers have no control of  what they are doing and even more, most of them do not know or do not care about the consequences of  being irresponsible and have a baby in an extremely early age. This fact developes in the decition of abort or not doing it. Nowadays, the 62% of the world population lives in 55 countries where controlled abortion is legal, whereas the 25% of the population lives in countries where practicing it is penaliced and punished. In Spain there are three cases in which law only lets people abort: the first one is because of a raption; the second one because of physicall and psychicall danger of the mother and the third case is in the case of the foetus would have some kind of defect such as Down's Syndrome. However, the other kinds of abortion are illegal, but they are also exercised in private clinics. In all countries people have different points of view of making them legal or not. But the most important thing to have into account is if these teenagers should damage the rest of their lives for an error committed in his youth.
   One of the extremist point of view is the one that defends that abortion is a kind of killing. They think abortion is not moral because you do not give the chance to the foetus to choose if he wants to live or not. The Bible appears to be silent on the topic of abortion, but it explains their believes and feelings without mentioning the word "abortion". The Bible shows that what there is in the breast of a pregnant mother is a human being. Moreover, the Bible condemn the direct homicide of the innocents and children who are not borned are, obviously, innocents. So, they think that killing them with the abortion has to be found guilty and it violates all the rights of a human being. As it is said in the Bible <R> <Q> . Abortion violates the right of living. Catholic Church is guided by the Bible and no by scientific facts, so they believe that life begins when an ovum is fertilized, and when it is done it is because of a decition of God and nobody can interrupt it, because it is not moral for life; being in the month they be during pregnancy. They do not believe in the destruction of a human being life, even if it is not formed yet, or even in the way that they can be conceived and people could stop this fact, as for example by using contraceptive methods; it is an abortion for them because you do not let the ovum be fertilized. Catholic Church has the same behaviour wether the pregnant person is an adult or if she is a teenager and they do not have into account that a teenager has all her life to live. And it seems to me that people should think as if they were the young girl who has been got pregnant, and think if they want to live the rest of their life with problems because of this child.
   On the other hand, one of the main arguments for abortion is to help these people to be happy and to do what they want to do. Some people think they should not carry a charge all their life for an error commited in adolescence. Sometimes teenagers do not know what they are doing and they do not have enough care to not commit these kind of mistakes. But having a child in an early age can have bad consequences for the teenager, just because young mothers take the risk to have long-lasting problems in many aspects of their life; as it is said, poverty can be a factor because they have not enough money to mantain a baby , they cannot have a good job because with those ages they not have the enough studies to get it and maybe they would not finish those studies because they have to look after their child. However, these are not the only reasons why there are people for abortion; psychollogists and doctors say these young people have not grown up enough to have babies and can have psichycal illnesses by causing them a trauma, because this fact changes their lives at everything. They can also have physicall illnesses, because their bodies are not as adults'ones, helping the baby to be victim of some different illnesses caused by deformations. Adolescence is a period of changes and emotions, so they are not prepared for having a baby in these ages. They become adults in a few months and they have to be prepared for everything and this is a job that nobody is going to teach them. Most of the young mothers do not want to have the baby, what increases the opportunities to abandon the baby, to not to look after him as he deserves, to have anxiety or being frustated. A 1989 study of teenagers who sought pregnancy tests found that, counting from the beginning of pregnancy until two years later, the level of stress and anxiety of those who had an abortion did not differ from that of those who had not been pregnant or who had carried their pregnancy to term. Something that is totaly true because when these young girls take off the baby that they do not want, they also take off a big problem in their lives, which is going to help them to live better and in the future they will decide when and whom having a child.
   It is true that there is also another point of view which is not as extremist as the two said before. They think abortion should be legal depending on the case, and looking at their reasons. One of the most important reasons is if the mother has been raped; these peolple think it is not moral and what is more, it is not fair that a woman should have a baby of the person who has damage and deteriorate her life. This case, which violate all the human rights, is allowed for almost all the world except some countries or some states of America, as: Ohio, Rhode Island and South Carolina, that ban all abortions with no exceptions, even if the woman is raped. The second reason of letting abort being legal is if the mother can have mental of physical problems with the pregnancy. And the third one is if the child can have a big illness and it will cost him a problem to live as a normal person one he is borned; as for example, Down's Syndrome, which could be a reason for stopping the pregnancy. Those people also say that all these cases should be in the period of 12 weeks, because if not, they would also consider it as a crime bacause the foetus is big enough and they consider it a child. My objective perspective is that these three cases are obviously problems that cannot be avoided, so they should help the mother not to suffer more that what she has and stop her pregnancy, for instance, if she has been raped psychollogists would treat them for this problem but if she has a baby of the raper man she would get crazy each time she looks at her baby.
   Finally, I should say that the theme of abortion is going to be always on the table, people will always discuss  these topic and they will also have different points of view. The fact that young people get pregnant is a problem that can not be avoided, so it will be always present for the rest of our lives; unless people, specially teenagers, get concious of using contraceptive methods and also about the concequences of having a baby and try to be carefull of what they do. Just because if the person wants the child she would not have to abort, and in the other case she would not have got pregnant if she uses these contraceptive methods. Some people argue that to finish with this problem human beings should give more information of what is happening nowadays in our society, teaching sexual education to young people and teach them the consequences they would have if the commit an error. If this happens people would be more mature with what they do and maybe this problem would be eliminated. This people also think that society should be more flexible to let people do what they want and, of couse, having respect of each other.



