       "The world's oldest profession" Is another way of saying prostitution. It is impossible to say weather this name is fair or not. The truth is that exchange of sex for goods is not only present in our society since history can recall but also in nature: such behaviours have been observed in Penguins and Bonobo Chimpanzees. As for historical facts we find that in the ancient Greek prostitutes were independent and sometimes powerful women who paid taxes, these women were called hetaeras and a similar figure can be found in ancient Japan's orians. During the Middle Ages prostitution was considered a necessary evil, that is, prostitution although sinful was necessary to avoid greater evils such as rape, sodomy or masturbation. It wasn't until the 16th century that prostitution began to be banned by governments; in Germany many brothels were closed as a measure to eradicate prostitution. This fact may have been linked to the raise of Protestantism or, more likely, to the rise of venereal diseases. From then until our days the intolerance and government banning of prostitution has only raised. It's been 600 years and still countries with restrictive legislations haven't succeeded in eradicating it from their territories. Although in countries in which prostitution is legalized many problems still affects these workers I personally believe that banning becomes the same as ignoring the problem, and it is not the right approach to solve it. Therefore in this essay I'm going to write about why I believe prostitution should be legalized. 
      The first thing I would like to clear out is why I think banning doesn't work. I have carried out a research on the net for articles and forums where people defend banning as the best policy to fight against the violation of human rights in prostitution. A main misconception must be cleared out before arguing this point: It is untrue that those against legalization have this attitude because of religious or moral conceptions; the truth is that even some catholic organisations are in favour of legalizing it. The main argument of those in favour of banning has nothing to do with morality, they favour banning because they believe that prostitution is a result of poverty, drug abuse and lack of work opportunities. The idea is that providing the necessary infrastructures of education and government support to the unemployed prostitution would be eradicated as there wouldn't be a person that will accept to do such work if offered a better one.  Surveys carried out in Canada support this idea, <Q>.  
      These ideas are based on facts, but the solutions provided are not. The truth is the majority of banning governments do not pay enough attention to the problem, the exception would be Sweden which has proved that the infrastructures needed to ban prostitution takes a large investment which third world countries cannot afford, and these countries are the main source of prostitutes, like Philippines for example.  Studies carried out by the local authorities of Madrid shows that 90% of the prostitutes working in the city are illegal immigrants. The money invested in banning prostitution consists of large sums and it's inefficient. Prostitutes are caught and have to be processed as criminals, but the number of cases is so large that courtrooms and police departments are overflowed by the amount of cases of prostitution and it all ends up when the costumer or pimp pays the fines and takes the prostitute back to the street, justice in this case is absolutely inefficient, and it all ends up when authorities begin to ignore the problem instead of fighting it. Also we must consider that the data provided by the Swedish government is not as accurate as one may expect, as it only refers to street prostitution and brothels, but it says nothing about any form of prostitution outside these two. Furthermore the argument falls apart when analyzing particular cases of women and men we find that many chooses to prostitute themselves because the earnings provided in other works such as cleaning houses are way lower and don't cover their basic necessities. Prostitution is then a choice not an imposition. Why should a democratic government ban a commercial activity of exchange of services for money between two agreeing adults? And why should the government ignore the many unfair situations created by the including of prostitution in the criminal circles?  Furthermore the allowance of prostitution to remain hidden from view and basically invisible to the law as it is today allows a number of teens to be swept up into prostitution every year often manipulated by opportunists who exploit these teens. Legalizing prostitution will help prevent such cases through regulation.
      Nowadays the legislation regarding this issue changes from a country to another. In some jurisdictions, such as Nevada, Switzerland, Holland and in three Australian states prostitution is legal but heavily regulated. In others, like in the UK, prostitution itself is not illegal but soliciting and pimping are. These countries have legislated driven by the idea that prostitution is impossible to eliminate, and so, the laws are oriented to put an end to some of its consequences, for instance: venereal diseases, human trafficking or child prostitution. According to the international collective of prostitutes legalization is a first good step towards the end of abuse and exploitation because it separates prostitution from illegal activities. Take for example an important element in street prostitution: the pimp. The pimp is a man that makes his living "protecting" a small number of prostitutes. In many cases the pimp is the person that acting as a boyfriend or friend makes the woman become a prostitute. These women begin being dependant on the pimp either economically or emotionally. The relationship between pimp and prostitute often ends up being abusive, and is a source of much violence against prostitutes. In areas where legal restrictions on prostitution are lighter, the power of pimps over prostitutes normally decreases, as the prostitutes are able to seek the government's forces protection. The fact of prostitutes being considered criminals makes it even worse as they can't turn to the security forces in search of protection when being abused as they are illegal agents. Banning governments with repressive legislations don't succeed in finishing with prostitution, and they end up either ignoring the problem or contributing to police corruption. .   
      As stated above venereal disease and health control of the prostitutes is one of the main advantages of legalization. Banning government's legislations, like Sweden's, don't even mention policies to fight venereal diseases. Actually the debate carried in the Swedish parliament dealt more with the violation of social order than with the problems of prostitutes. In the Netherlands policies to control venereal diseases are being taken. Obligatory medical checks on prostitutes are being carried out in order to fight venereal diseases.
      A mid point between banning and legalizing is found in the case of Spain. Spain has no legislation whatsoever about prostitution. The local governments are the ones that have legislated to control it. For example in Madrid any person walking at night in "Montera" st may have seen the prostitutes walking up and down. The government response to the neighbour's complains was to move them to another part of the town where they would not bother anyone. This position is from my point of view the worst one that a government can adopt. Ignoring prostitution is an exercise of irresponsibility and it is one of the big issues the Spanish government has still to confront
      Lastly a comment on human trafficking must be made, as this is one of the main problems that affects prostitution nowadays. Either of the policies, banning or legalizing, haven't succeed in finishing with the problem. Many of the pro-banning argues that legalizing creates places where mafias can act freely whereas in areas where prostitution is controlled they avoid acting. The truth is that banning does not help either, it just redirects the prostitutes to other locations, but the legislations don't fight against this type of crime. In Holland, on the other hand, legalization has helped understand how big and serious this problem is. In January 2006 an advertisement campaign was launched in the Netherlands to encourage clients to report any sign of forced prostitution to the police. In Sweden on the other hand this type of crimes couldn't even be acknowledged as clients of prostitutes are prosecuted by the police and fined.    
      In conclusion, legalizing prostitution is a first step towards ending with the ill treatment of prostitutes by pimps; it is also a tool to fight human trafficking and venereal diseases. The benefits of legalizing prostitution are many apart from the mentioned. Take for example the fact of prostitutes paying taxes, these taxes aside from providing a monetary support to fight the problems of prostitutes it would provide a pension system for prostitutes to retire properly. It would also put the prostitutes in a better social position, as workers and part of society rather than as objects or consumer goods. In fact linking with the pro-banning ideas the infrastructures necessary to provide education for prostitutes would be easier to administer, as the government would have the necessary data to find this prostitutes and encourage them to get better jobs through education. Banning prostitution is in my opinion a big mistake as the tools to fight international mafias and forced prostitution are within legalization and government control. I believe legalization itself is not the definitive answer to these problems, but it is definitely the better first step to be taken.  
      

