The GAES (the Society of General Authors and Editorials of Spain) makes Spanish citizens guilty of a crime before they have even committed it. This statement is made through the "obligatory cannon" of payment, to which all the recording and reproduction basis of data (diskette, CD...) is held to. In this essay I wish to prove, at least from my point of view, that this seems unfair.

The GAES was created without profit aim and with the only purpose of the defence of the author's rights. Through vinculated businessman and artists to the culture's world, this society arranges the cashing and the distribution of their rights at the same time that it maintains the editor's interests. Their direction advice is presided by Teddy Bautista (musician, producer, cinema actor, intellectual...). Of their multiples functions, which is more standed up because of its social repercussion are the antipiratery and persecution of related crimes. The organism pays expensive campaigns to concienciate society with their "antipiratery" message in which it relates obviously the interchange of files in Internet with criminal organizations of international character which dedicate to illegal reproduction of music CD's and video DVD's. I think that by using the word "piratery", a moral equivalence has been established between the people who download music CD's from the Internet and the ones who broke into the ships, murdered the tripulation, killed them, plundered them and raped them. With all this negatives connotations, for me, is complicated to say a phrase such as "I am in favour of the piratery" without it sounds crazy.(I might say that I am not in favour of music mafias)

In 2002 an "ambitious plan against the piratery" was approved. For making that, what was made was <Q> as the journalist Ignacio Escolar informed in June. This seems very unfair to me, especially because this cannon against piratery was not approved by every author but was paid for all. And this is unfair, in my point of view, above all because the GAES allows only to vote the ones that get a determinate level of income and what is more, it shares until five votes for person depending of how much money each author moves.

What is penalized by the penal right are the conducts which suppose plagiarise or copy of protected works (with a special economic benefit or profit aim) and for almost every musician their truly source of deposit is in the life performance, not in the sell of CDs. It is for this that I believe that availability of the musician's material favours the affluence of public to their concerts. My friend Nacho who has a rock band says that if he had spent the same time he had spent in music to work as a barman, he surely had gained more money only with the tips. And he thinks that the artistic creation is not in danger with the free distribution on the Internet. His author's rights provide him almost 100 euros per month, while each concert depending on the public and on the promoter among 200 and 350euros. So I think that following this information, should not be the GAES giving extra security to the concerts to avoid that people slip in, preserving in this way their engaged cause with the artist? 
 I think that fortunately, the fact that if there is no profit aim (you have your right of private copy) you are not guilty of piratery. This principle saved a man who was denounced in Santander and for who they wanted to spend 2 years in prison and pay a fine of 7200 euros.

The GAES defends that every author have the right of receive benefits for their work and that the cannon foment the protection of the autochthon culture and the apparition of new talents. In the Society the authors adjudicates their creations and each time one of these works are interpreted, recorded, performed, projected or emitted, the author receives the correspondent rights. But I think this is not in this way, because this cannon is arbitrary; what really happens is that it has no strict control over what works are really used without authorisation. By this way, the capital the cannon creates is shared "by finger" between the more popular artists, disregarding the real problems of the industry: who sells more is not always who suffers more the weigh of plagiarism or non-authorised copy.

The GAES applies the cannon in form of a porcentual tax for each private copy (do not take for security copy, to which we have right) to cassettes, diskettes, CD's, DVD's...we pay the rights of CD's videos or reproductory devices to compensate domestic recordings that the public do of films, concerts, TV programs...In my point of view, this is a serious mistake because, as everyone knows, CD's and the rest of supports can contain private data unaware to the GAES control, remaining exempt of any charge. I think that if this approach extends, its consequences will be terrible. For instance: we will have a cannon when buying a screwdriver to indemnify the owners of forced vehicles even if we only try to tighten a piece of furniture. So we are paying the cannon "just in case" and if we will be paying GAES members when buying their CD or when buying a virgin CD, so for what do we pay the original if we are paying the cannon?

The GAES defends its altruist's posture and engaged with artist's cause, but what I really think is that their only function is to gain money. In a 15 days festival organised in the Segovian village  of Fuentepelayo for discapacitate children (which is free and is maintained with some public subventions) they were interpreted oeuvres that as said Juan Cruz Serrano, the responsible of the festival <Q>. The tittles of the original works did appear in the bills and in 2003; the Segovian delegation of the GAES denounced them, after the attempt of explanation of the festival, because they have not paid the author's rights of the representation. This seems to me very sad and I see the posture the GAES take few sympathetic or solidary. Finally in 2006, the GAES assured that it was a terrible "mistake" but I hardly think that it was due to the denouncing campaign that was carried in multiples blogs on the Internet because unfortunately, similar cases have happened: in June 2006  was celebrated a festival organised by the "Fundación Paz y Solidaridad de Andalucía C.C:O.O." to obtain money to reconstruct some  refugee's schools in Tinduf (Argelia). The tickets were selling but not only bought for people who went to the concert(some to show their support to this cause). The GAES gained more than 3000euros (exactly 3.268.60) for the celebration of the event. But what I feel sadder is who lost the money.

They also argue not to be qualified to renounce to receive the corresponding author's rights, for instance, <Q> explains Juan Nebreda, GAES director of the centre zone. I can understand that the organization of such as event could imply publicity but I think that if it is organized for a good reason and that the organization is not going to gain money for it (or at least at the moment, that the concert is not going to be profitable in a close period of time) I can not support the GAES position.

And a troublesome thing among this Society is that they are  <Q>.

In conclusion, I am not in favour of the work the GAES is doing, firstly because it does not even protect every author at the same way, being more favourable for those who sell more and secondly, because the taxes we all pay when buying a CD or any other support are completely unfair, because these taxes should protect every author's work, but if we do not use them for any of this purposes but for recording for example our last holidays? Should we be paying an extra for our work?

