Nowadays contemporary art museums (MOMA, TATE Modern, etc.) are full of fundamental pieces in the art world just because of their aesthetic value. Ironically, the artist alive more relevant of the year 2006, the young Londoner BANKSY, has obtained this place through out his paintings full of social content. In this essay I will expose firstly, the different points of view about his work and his place in contemporary art.

According to the official definition <R>  art is the quality, production, expression, or realm, according to aesthetic principles, of what is beautiful, appealing, or of more than ordinary significance. According to the artists <R> , nowadays this definition makes no sense because, from Neoclassics to BANKSY, all the famous artists have succeeded and lasted in art history by breaking the rules and conventions: Van Gogh, Picasso or Warhol for instance. My opinion is a hundred percent agree with the artists' side because to me art is a mirror of society. So if society changes by revolutions, art changes too.
	
Most people think of art as a way to conveying emotions without a concrete meaning; Contrary to language, art does not communicate concrete concepts but it abstracts reality creating a bunch of different perceptions. BANKSY breaks up this rule and gives to the viewers an art image full of meaning but keeping the choice of different interpretations <R> . In my opinion the best art pieces are those which hit the mind with a powerful image easy to understand but deep enough to stand back and debate as BANKSY's.

The cultural elite support the statement of making art an incomprehensible and unachievable matter for the working class. According to the BANKSY's words: <Q> <R> . On the one hand I agree with the idea that there are handicaps promoted by artists to drive away working class from their work because a master piece, as a poem, deserves to be contemplated with a minimum of knowledge. And on the other hand, I agree with BANKSY firstly because the majority of nowadays artists are in business strictly because of contacts.
 
According to Wikipedia <R> <Q>  but for some graffiti writers (as they call themselves) like Espo, it exist a clear difference between graffiti and paintings on the wall. For them graffiti must be vandalism without meaning, just a tag on the wall (R. Mirando). Contrary, BANKSY catalogues graffiti as an art form, indeed, he thinks that graffiti is a step up compared to other types of art, that if you operate out of graffiti, you operate at a lower level <R> . Others as Peter Gibson, the spokesperson of the campaign Keep Britain tidy, considers his work as the other's writers, mere vandalism. It is also critisized the fact that he captures anti-system messages in districts or buildings whose inhabitants so do not share. Other important figures do recognize his work as art as Westminster council who said <Q>  letting know that he considers it art but that the streets are not the place where it should be <R> . From my point of view graffiti is just a vandalic expression (destructive spirit that does not respect anything) that looses sense inside museums because it is out of context and that painting the walls the way BANKSY does is for me, despite he considers himself a writer, "street art" because it is a full meaning painting (to vindicate,for instance). On the other hand I do not understand why people can not accept this messages ( that may no share) when they are surrounded by commercials everywhere and they are neither asked when these commercial messages are put. I feel more disturbed by these kind of messages I neither share and which main function is create necessities upon us.  

What moves BANKSY painting on the street is his firm idea that art should be out of the museums. It is an accident that his works is sold on the Internet overpriced. He has no control over the fact that some gallerists buy his work by Internet <R> . Gallerists think they have the right to exhibit BANKSY's work inside their galleries because they have paid for it. I think that a good gallerist, as art promoter, should respect the artist's demands. According to the Wikipedia <R> , BANKSY uses his urban art to promote different visions to those belonging to the big mass media. It is also said that he works being paid for benefic organizations as Greenpeace and for companies as Puma or MTV. But this information is not true: if you look in Greenpeace official web as well as in Puma's or MTV's nothing about it is mentioned and what is more, BANKSY himself thinks that people abuse us everyday, they take a cheap shot at us and then disappear, they watch us from top buildings and make us feel small. They make comments from buses that imply we are not sexy enough and all the fun is happening somewhere else <R> . What he defends is his work on the street as a way of fighting the capitalist system we are forced to live with. I agree with the way this guy is opposing the system, because if you do it inside a museum you are contributing the system. I find very funny the way he has of mocking about museums by introducing some unauthentic works with slight modifications which camouflage among the original exposition <R> . I think that staying anonymous as he does is the perfect sign that what he does is not because of the money but because of maintaining his principles and I see it very commendable and respectable.

<Q> . With those words the metropolitan police put up clear their opinion about BANKSY's work. They will always play their role and penalize BANKSY if they catch him painting in public areas. BANKSY answers to this by making public paintings on the walls representing a police officer reading "stop me before I paint again". Last year, the Anti-social Behaviour Bill, brought by a politician, David Blunkett, which gave councils the power to forcibly remove graffiti from private property whether the owners of the property wanted to or not because he considered them as criminal acts <R> . In a different opinion we have Simon Hattenstone, a journalist from Guardian, who said that he felt this paintings on the walls as a gift for everyone, that make him feel optimistic about the possibilities of shared dreams and common ownership <R> . In my opinion art should not be a possession monopolized by an owner that is why I agree with Mr. Hattenstone seeing this street art a gift for everyone.  

To sum up, towards this artist it can be found very different positions and opinions and it is due to the medium he uses for his art why these opinions are so radicals. In  overview, I do not only agree with this artist's technique but also I think that museums should take into account BANKSY's open-minded point of view.






