The possibility of getting pornography almost in every television or computer has generated controversy in recent times. Easily one can get some porno file and the religion and moral implications have produced a pro-censorship posture against it. But we can also find people who defend this kind of content and of course we have some which are in favour of this practice but always with some restrictions. In this essay I will try to discuss some of the main viewpoints towards the pornography.
Firstly, we can find a religious point of view which sees pornography as the secularization of something sacred and a violation of spouses' intimate relationship: sex is only to be enjoyed with one 's spouse and the sexual intercourse is limited to the express function of procreation, that is why sexual pleasure or sex-oriented entertainment is considered immoral <R> . But nowadays sex is seen as something more than a simply act of procreation and even in marriages it takes place without this function and what is more, to consume pornography does not imply to take it without the spouse. In fact it can also be a great stimulator for couples that have been together for a long time and that need some kind of push up.

Secondly, we can find the posture of the MAP (Men Against Pornography) that wants to create the "sexual justice". For them pornography teaches what one assumes that sex has to be, what women must be and what men must be; that it gives men false expectatives about women's sexual nature saying them that what women want is to be dominated and possessed. In one hand they should not forget that porno is fiction, it was made with the purpose of making real some fantasies and on the other hand, they are closed just to one type of porno (women dominated by men) but it can be found women dominating men or where there is no domination towards anyone. In relation with  men, anti-porn individuals assume that pornography is made strictly for male enjoyment but nowadays more women read and view pornography media because they enjoy it. In fact, women comprise the half of the total consumers who buy or rent adult videos in the United States <R> . This shows that women are interested in porn whether they buy it alone or with a partner.

 According to the American Heritage Dictionary <R> <Q> , but  associations such as G.A.P.(Group Against Pornography) considers pornography as any form of communication which portrays sexual behaviour that degrades, dehumanizes, exploits or abuses. This belief make them think that pornography plays an accessory role in negative issues such as sexual child abuse, violence against women, date rape, inequality or youth crime. The feminist group Women and Pornography argue that stating that porn causes sexual violence against women is harming  women more than helping: if a law was passed using this as its basis, sex offenders would be able to escape maximum punishment by claiming that porn made them.

It can be found positions in favour of pornography defending it as a very profitable industry. The Harriot Hotels for example have become distributor of pornography because of the big quantity of demand: there are moved among 60 million dollars per year in the world. This industry also enriches the actors and if they have chosen their work freely, not forming part of any mafia or abuse, it must be considered as a very respectful profession as Jenna Haze, porn actress, affirms. Being a porn actor, according to the people who belongs to this world, is a work that needs more mental actuation rather than physical and that should be considered august. Most of the girls now working in this industry have raised their benefits coming from nowhere and having nothing. But some religious people condemn it, calling it prostitution, to which these actresses answer that it is nothing more but an ordinary work: some people obtain money by working in an office and they do it by performing.

One of the strongest arguments suggested by people related with the arts world is why pornography is not considered as arts. They argue that a naked body is pornography depending on the geographic latitude and on the historical moment. They say that in our culture every oeuvre in which human genitals is shown is considered a pornographic thing (always with the negative connotation of obscenity) and that if we revise the history of art, we will find infinity of pictorial samples that nowadays will be considered pornography (obscene) but that receive the noun of art because they were painted hundred of years ago (as the roman frescos for example). But moralists reply that these paintings were not pornographic but erotic. It would appear logical if the American Heritage Dictionary did not give the definition of erotic as <R>  just the same as pornography. To those who say that pornography is obscene can find the answer of the journalist C.Pérez Jara and other thinkers who affirm that the obscenity is a quality of the lookers mind, and this quality is different depending on the social charges, moral and culture of the person. So, pornography considered as something obscene, is not in the qualities of the object but in the attitude of who is judging.

Other defenders of pornography are those who see sex as something that lighten the tension. For example in jail, the prisoners only have a half an hour vis- à- vis per month. Everyone knows that sex is a biological need that can only be replaced with masturbation and if they could have access to pornography it could be profitable for relieving male aggressive tension in there as some civil servant of several jails affirm. The religious part of the society rejects this explanation by saying that masturbation is also an immoral, but they can not deny that as sex is something biological and which repression is not healthy, one good measure will be providing pornography inside the jails <R>.

There is also a middle point towards pornography in which it can be found B.Dodson, a sex expert, who claims, for instance, that pornography allows women experience things they are curious about but would never try themselves. This in the measure that helps to develop one freedom is completely logical. It also shows how pornography is not only followed by men and the advance of women sexual role. A way of changing the point of view of porno would be, according to Bibian Norai <R> , actress, producer and porno director, to have more female porn producers. It is thought that an increased feminine participation in educating all women should take place to enlighten women to the benefits of sexual expression. But the moralist side of the society continues seeing this practise as something incomprehensible. This is answered by the feminist against- censorship a denial of one freedom.

Another point of view of those who are partially in favour of pornography is, for example, to establish a separation between the different types of pornography, rejecting deviations (gonzo or child porno, considered in fact, illegal) <R> . To them the answer to "bad pornography" is "good pornography" not no pornography. This seems a smart idea, not to deny everybody fantasies.

In conclusion, pornography is a very controversial theme that usually provokes radical points of view but that has obtained middle point nowadays. Prohibiting all pornographic material on a supposed basis of universal degradation and humiliation is not the solution to the problems of female victimization and sexual assaults. Neither is to allow every sexual practise distribution. Often the middle points are not as extremist as pro and against opinions, allowing the consumption of pornographic materials but eliminating the deviated ones. 































