      During the last few years of the twentieth century the number of divorced couples has increased considerably. It seems the latest trend, however, to marry and then get divorced; just probably to follow the cycle once again. For instance, in 2005 in the U.K., 1 in 5 couples  who went through a divorce had a previous marriage which ended up in the same fashion. Nevertheless, in the same year the number decreased from previous figures - from 167,138 to 155,052, which constitutes a 7% <R> . The problem, however, arises when the family nucleus is about to disappear and, what should they do about their children? Then parents starts -in most cases- to struggle for child custody, being more concerned about obtaining it than their children's welfare. Therefore, in this paper the main viewpoints on child custody inequalities are going to be dealt with, the same as the affectation that this provokes in the children involved.


      Many fathers affected by this situation claim that they are unfairly treated. Their support lies primarily in the fact that fathers are usually not awarded with child custody. The reason for this to happen, they argue is that modern western society -in particular- still retains the traditional role of the father as the breadwinner, whilst the mother assumes the role of the caregiver. Therefore -and following their chain of thought- when the couple ends their relationships and most surely the mother will be granted child custody, whereas the father is bound to pay the correspondent alimony for leaving the household <R> ). As a result some associations defending fathers rights have been created in the last few years, such as Fathers 4 Justice. The former has starred several campaigns asking for a change in the current divorce law. The most well-known episode could be the one in which a man disguised as Batman entered Buckingham Palace in 2004. 


      Fathers 4 Justice maintains that judges are biased against men when they have to grant them with child custody. They believe that this situation is happening because of the traditional roles men and women are given by society, as it has been mentioned above. Furthermore, they argue that such roles have dehumanised fathers; and as one of them declares <Q> <R> . It appears that deleting those traditional roles is a good proposal. In fact, this was made a couple of centuries ago by the women movement trying to introduce a disruptive, as well as innovative, vision of women in society. This is why it is fair enough that men do not feel nowadays in disadvantage, inasmuch as they are seeking for equality to do the parenting towards their children, as mothers do. Nevertheless, so much media coverage broadcasting could bring about negative consequences for their aim. A good example of this occurs in Germany, where as Dr Karin Jäkel states <Q> <R> . Therefore, to some people -with a lot of power in this case- consider these campaigns rather outrageous; and consequently as a drawback in their behalf. Their work, on the other hand, can be done with some demonstrations; and a campaign to change this on a daily basis. 


      On the other hand, women who have undergone a divorce complain that these fathers already have a media coverage. Nevertheless, those mothers and children who have been battered by the father are totally inarticulate, and their pleas reach nowhere and no one. As a matter of fact, some data might strike the reader because of its information: 70% of abusive men obtain child custody before these women can get it <R> ). Less is the number of women who having report these abuses to the authorities are likely to be given the custody <R> . The reason for this is that these fathers are able to persuade the court that his former partner is unfitted to be in charge of such responsibility. Others researches have found out that <Q> <R> .in addition to this some reports add that  custodial mothers tend to live in poverty <R> . This is what "Breaking the Silence: Children's Stories" -a documentary airing abuses from fathers- is aimed at. Documentary which fathers' rights are against.

      It is certainly a very pessimistic situation, the one these women have to face. Specially, when the authorities encourage battered women to report this attacks and afterwards are completely obviated by them. Therefore, they have to stand up for their rights and complain as much as they need to be heard. However, there seems to be a weakness, which is the overgeneralisation they make against all men. This is not fair for these presupposes that all men are batterers -which is not true. But the fact that fathers' are against this documentary might take  a two-way thinking: on the one hand, they would like to left things untouched not to create more opinions against them; but on the other hand, they would like to hide some truth.


      Still men complain that women are vilifying them in an exaggerated, and in an unnecessary, fashion. As one of fathers' rights movement declares: <Q> . Even the figures speak for themselves: 72% of cases mothers retain sole custody, although with an agreement between them; 17% represents joint custody; and 9% custody is given to fathers. Furthermore, they remark that in many instances mothers turn children against their father. They conclude that <Q> . This is doubtless a situation of disadvantage for fathers, yet observing it carefully some drawbacks might come up to the surface. According to the data, a high percentage of mothers are granted with the custody, and that may imply certain convenience for the father -at least in a number of cases. Although it is obvious that not all of them would be shared by the people involved. Another fact is that one third of fathers' rights supporters are women, and therefore, the argument of not having female help is not valid <R> ).
      
      
      Other professionals suggest that judges should not find the suitable verdict for any of the parents, but for the children. Normally, children are the most affected part in a divorce. Mary Ann Mason, professor of family law at Berkeley, claims that children need stability in their lives, and it is well-known that a divorce is not <R> . In addition to this, legal decisions have a repercussion on the child later development. Some problems might be, as Dr William Bernet points out <R>  the parental alienation syndrome. This disorder appears as the outcome of an inducement from one of the parents, consciously or unconsciously, for a rejection towards the other partner. One possible illustrative example of this could be Jim Quirk's, whose ex-wife was "alienating" their child making him think that his father was abusing of him <R> . Some symptoms foreseeing this syndrome are those such as: rejection towards one parent -due to abuse or neglect on this parent side-; or when the child is the middle of a very tense battle, the tendency to believe they love one parent and hate the other.
      
      
      What Dr Bernet suggest, together with other experts is that joint custody is the best solution. In this way, he argues, the child would keep in contact with both parents, and without much interference -or better said diminishing those interferences-, being of good benefit for them. Derived from all the information above, it seems logical that the main protection should fall on the child. As it is enshrined in the 1989 Children Act: <Q> <R> . This fact is usually forgotten at court, and even between parents themselves -as it has been commented so far. Therefore, taking more into consideration the child's welfare is of the foremost importance by virtue it is considered as good the joint custody. Nevertheless, it would present some drawbacks, but the question lies on whether divorce is the solution. Answer which must be given by the couple involved.
      
      
      To sum up, the issue of whether to provide the mother or the father with child custody, and what is best for the children, has been dealt with in this essay. On the one hand, some people -generally fathers affected by a divorce- claim that they are unfairly treated. To support this they argue that the traditional role of the breadwinner covers their real role as fathers. In addition, they maintain that women in this field make them look as the ogre in a fairy tale. On the other hand, most women who have suffered from this sort of experience complain that fathers, not only are covered by the mass media, but also that a great proportion of abusive men obtain child custody. A third viewpoint intermingles in the discussion. This leaves aside the question of mothers and fathers so as to focus on children. They claim that such struggles only affects negatively on the child since children need of both parents in order to grow up well -psychologically speaking. Therefore, the ideal solution would be joint custody, or any kind of agreement between the partners. Solution which is in many cases realistic. Nevertheless, each couple has its own problems in which no one else should meddle into unless this can become a problem for the child involved. 











      
      


