      In our present society, there is a fast-growing population of immigrants in 
western countries which has provoked some important cultural clashes. Particular is the 
case of Muslims for, since September, 11th  ,many articles have been written on the 
subject of the war against Islamic terrorism, which consequently have made people feel 
a great rejection of symbols traditionally related to this religion. Nevertheless, most of 
the opinions concerning these external signs come from a western viewpoint, without 
taking into consideration the motives why they are really meaningful to them and 
without being respectful to them, either. Thus, my purpose in this paper is to present a 
series of arguments, from my point of view, about how the mass media has increased 
the criticism against Muslim external symbols.

      
      
      Firstly, I believe that the veil does not equal repression for women in Islamic 
communities. As a matter of fact, there is now a higher number of women wearing 
headscarves than a few years ago, in Europe and North America <R>. 
It seems to me, then, that the veil is more an external symbol of identification within a 
community <R>, than an attempt to expand their own (fundamental) 
religious beliefs in non-Muslim countries, as has been said <R>. Because of their 
cultural basis, I do not think they feel inferior to men for their wearing the veil, but it  is just a sign of their faith. Moreover, they are fairly well aware that they have a right of working either as housewives, or outside the household <R>, depending on how 
they decide to make their living.

Nonetheless, many voices have raised in unison claiming that the veil is "a 
symbol of female subjugation". This statement has been made, not only by feminist 
groups, but also from high hierarchies in several countries, such as in France by Remy 
Schwarts <R>. For this reason, there is a strong opinion in these circles in 
favour of banning headscarves due to the oppressive meaning they read on it. On the 
other hand, I feel rather contrary to this course of action since, for me, governments are just playing with it as a <Q>  <R> in their crusade against 
fundamentalist Islam, which is what they most fear nowadays. It seems to me that they 
are misjudging why they wear the veil and it is no obstacle in their daily lives .

Secondly, many people, as François Baroin <R>, maintain that by wearing headscarves 
they are only separating themselves from the societies where they live in. Homa Hoodfar <R>, argues 
that it is true that the veil creates a sort of separation between the woman and the rest of the society. This situation, thus, brings about a clash between the two cultures in contact - i.e. western ideas and Muslim ones-, since the ideas of the West cannot conceal with Islamic since they face up life in completely different perspectives.

This is why I think that we -the West- should try to analyse this other culture, 
not from our own point of view, but from theirs. For them, the veil has a different 
meaning, which is that they have their "individual room", that space which is only for 
them and for their transcendence, their spiritual world. On the other hand, westerners 
have another perception of the headscarf: to trespass such a threshold to see what lies 
beyond <R>. Furthermore, and according to Noura Jaballah -head of the FrenchLeague of Muslim Women- claims that 
in this situation in which women have to defend, to fight for the rights as free citizens in a "so-called" republic, they forget completely what the meaning of the veil was in the 
first place, an consequently not being reminded of its spiritual function. And it seems to 
me that we have to make this effort to create a more integrating and , therefore, more 
peaceful environment in our societies.

A third point is that the defense of secularization it is not a strong enough 
argument to charge against the veil, in my opinion. In 2003, in France, there was a case  in which two sisters -Lila and Alma Lévy-omari-, were expelled from their school for refusing to take off their headscarves <R>. This event, from my own perspective, is 
rather incongruent since according to Remy Schwarts <Q>  <R>, with the idea of protecting individual faiths from the supremacy of others. Therefore, to me, these sisters are just exercising their right to choose freely their own conceptualization of life by means of a faith, Islam, in their case.

However, there are still people who think that this is against that inalienable and 
inherent right of secularization. Many of these voices argue that they do want to 
separate Church from State as it is happening in Germany <R>. Moreover, in this 
European country there is inconsistence in what the Federal State says, and what its States do. The reason for this is that when the General Government decided not to take any measure against headscarves, some Landers quickly started to create them <R>, which has left Ali Kizilkaya -head of the Islamic Council there- hopeless after this 
decision was taken. On the other hand, the French State Council claimed that 
headscarves were allowed, as long as <Q> <R>, which are very open concepts 
depending on one's ideas. Therefore, I believe that they should allow headscarves for they are not trespassing any law. 


      After the terrorist attacks to the Trade World Centre, the Madrid bombings, and 
the explosion in London's underground, the West has experiencing and ever-increasing 
feeling of fear. This has been triggered by the mass media through the subsequent 
articles published by the press, and broadcast through TV and radio, and those 
published on the Internet, after the unfortunate events. In France, for instance, Hanifa 
Cherifi and François Baroin maintain that the seed of Islamic fundamentalism is 
growing there in their own nations <R>. And the whole world has started a war , 
supposedly, to be against terrorism, but which were looking a profit, instead; as George W. Bush did regarding the war in Iraq.

On the other hand, I consider this as a mere exaggeration of the actual situation. 
I agree with the idea that there are some Islamic terrorist cells, which, although are a 
minority, do far more harm than anyone is able to imagine. The other part might not 
agree with western ideas, as Baroin suggests, and at the same time he claims that they 
are organizing themselves to overthrow the French Republic <R>.  However, it seems to me that this does not have to be directly related with the wearing of the veil, as I already observed above. On the contrary, the banning of the veil is an answer to the current situation, and the attack, I think, that the West is carrying on Muslims, not only in our societies, but in the entire world. 

Another point I want to highlight is the fact that in these decisions governments 
should take into consideration Muslim's opinions on the matter, I think. Ali Kazilkaya 
complains that many measures about the veil have been taken, but in none of them 
Muslims have been considered <R>. From my point of view, that is not a good policy for all the reasons we have seen before, and also because they are intervening in something which is primarily personal, and secondarily which belongs to a community. Furthermore, this community, at least in France, seems to be in both sides <R>, although my personal opinion is that it depends on each individual.

Another much more recent episode of this struggle has been the one in which has been involved the twenty-four-year-old teacher, Aishah Azmi <R>. Her case in summarized in that she is teaching and wearing the niqab, which covers the whole face. The important fact in this situation is that Mrs Azmi has complained why she has to suffer these consequences in this way <R>. In fact, there is a quote I like  very much for its content: <Q>  <R>.

In summary, this essay has presented a personal opinion of the actual situation of 
the veil in western societies, in particular after September, 11th . more in detail we have argued that the headscarf does not mean an inferior position of the woman with respect to men; that the veil is not a barrier, either, but just a mere symbol of their belief. We have also discussed that the concept of "secularization" is rather ambiguous, and a political weapon also. We have mentioned the fact of an increasing feeling of fear, which to some extent it can be consider as an exaggeration; we have been discussing the lack of a role that Muslims play in decision-taking on the matter of the veil; and a recent case of these "inarticulate" people. A possible solution to this is the dialogue and the understanding, though I still foresee a hard way to walk until that moment.
