   The current influx of refugees crossing the EU frontiers is a fast-growing number. According to the Geneva Convention of 1951 a refugee is <Q> <R> . Obviously the way of getting to the Union is usually precarious, or at least not lacking certain amount of danger. Once in Europe they need to apply for asylum, which is a human right targeted to protect the person involved. This means that a set of rules exist for the whole of the territory on this subject. The problem here is that each country adapts these rules to their own understanding of the question. Therefore, this paper is aimed at presenting the main aspects of the current law and its drawbacks from organizations views how unfair the situation I feel to be. 


   Asylum seekers are bound to apply for asylum in the first European country they have arrived in. Nevertheless, each nation may make refugees bounce from one country to another due to the concept of "Safe Third Country", since for the different states might be a sort of inconvenience. These norms, which are currently followed by the European Union regarding asylum policies, are enshrined in the Dublin Convention of 1990. on the other hand, E.C.R.E. -European Council on Refugees and Exiles-, which is an organization whose function is to monitor the European policies in this matter, claims that this situation is totally unfair. Their main argument being that this is a sort of lottery for these asylum seekers. They further explain that jumping from one state to the other does not provide them with the security they are after, and ultimately, they can be returned to their own country, which means they have just been wasting their time <R> . 


   This, I believe, is against the human rights these asylum policies claim to respect over all things. For instance, Maia comes from Ukraine, but due to threats she and her family had to flee from that country. As the Spanish passport is the easiest to obtain they got, though they went to live to the Netherlands instead. After they have accustomed they were moved to Spain. The real problem was that Maia's husband was mentally unstable and, as in Spain did not receive any treatment nor had an interpreter, he eventually committed suicide <R> . This is just one example of the injustice which, as Maia, many asylum seekers go through. This is why I feel that European countries should be more sympathetic to these refugees problems for their just human beings running away from whatever might frightens them, leaving behind all what they once called their lives.  


   An important point to cope with once the asylum procedure has started is integration. In the first place, asylum seekers have fled from their countries of origin. This on its own generates insecurity in any person for they find themselves in a foreign land. Secondly, the country the refugees have fled to presents in most cases substantial differences from its own culturally and linguistically. Consequently, in order to get used to their new situation they have to cope with a strenuous effort. Unfortunately, most of the native inhabitants are unable to be sympathetic towards the situation that these seekers need to face. For this reason, E.C.R.E. claims that integration is not only their effort, but also the realization of the population of the host country that theirs is not an easy situation <R> .

   I strongly believe that they deserve any assistance we can provide them with, for they have come with nothing. It is true, however, that some refugees run away to those countries in which they have relatives or friends, who once were alone there. This might be the case of some Iraqis who went northwards to Sweden where they had relatives <R> . In Spain, for example, the Refugee Asylum Centres provide these seekers with lodge and training courses during six months -the period to accept or deny the asylum permit. During this period, thus, they are helped out so as to be prepared to confront their new situation with practical tools <R> . The problem is that these centres do not have enough money so as to develop their task with better means and asylum seekers live crammed, which I do not think should be appropriate. As they come from different cultures is also the perfect spot to get familiar with the one in the country. Although it is frequently that the cultural clash is still "rough". As  Ali Rasoul Jober puts it <Q> <R> . Moreover, an attempt to reconcile differences, I feel, might be absolutely enrichening. A good example is that an exile's child was welcomed by his classmates with a poster and also with a birthday party. 



   A point  E.C.R.E. considers of vital significance is the shared responsibility. This does not include only among European members, but also with those host countries scattered throughout the world. It, thus, turns out to be a two-aim project. On one hand a humane attitude reflected in the want of protecting these human beings; and an economic one which takes into consideration that refugees granted with asylum might influence the economic situation due to the work permit. That is why Mr Brunson Mckinley argues that the assistance offered to them must be of a higher quality, in order to vouchsafe their welfare. Mr Mckinley, thus, suggests that creating a permanent emergency mechanism will be helpful when a catastrophe, in which refugees are involved, takes places. It would work as a constant account of money so as to assist the asylum seekers and provide them with lodge, food, medicines <R>  . This measure I think should have come years ago for its of the outmost importance for we are dealing with human lives.


   One solution relevant to shared responsibility and included in the European Union's agenda is resettlement. Resettlement is a procedure which permits refugees who flee to neighbouring countries, whose situation is not much better than theirs, to be relocated in other states so as to guarantee their safety and welfare. According to some figures the number of refugees in the world in 2004 was roughly 10 million and fewer than 5,000 were resettled in Europe <R> . An insignificant figure regarding the whole extension of the E.U. Moreover, this opinion is supported by ECRE, who argues that the increase in the number of seekers resettled would encourage others to carried it out. It seems to me that resettlement is a feasible solution. In addition to this I would add that it is positive in the sense that it is aimed at achieving "international solidarity", in which resettlement is seen as an "international protection tool" defending the fundamental rights of a human being <R> . And these fundamental rights are what many associations -NGOs, Scouting Movement...- advocate, and it seems to me that we all citizens -not only states- should assume more responsibilities in this respect. 


   A current problem is the arrival en masse of illegal immigrants to Europe. For this reason the number of measures restraining these crowds for staying here has increased. The most particular echoed case is that of Spain. Hundreds of immigrants arrived to Spanish coasts either to stay or to cross other European frontiers. In fact the Canary Islands are the most affected in this respect, and the Spanish Government is taking the necessary measures to deport them to their countries of origin. This is Bjiarte Vandvik  - E.C.R.E. General Secretary- condemns when he says that <Q> <R>.  This, I believe, they jeopardize thousands of lives and attempt against Human Rights.

   We must concede that the arrival of so many dinghies reaching Spanish coastline can be seen as a very worrying issue. Furthermore, many people feel that these migrants are a kind of invading horde determined to take over the jobs which, on the other hand, have no demand because the nationals do not consider them suitable. Another complaint frequently heard is that they have access to many more grants than Spanish nationals. All these, despite being true, it appears to me, they are intolerant comments. In Josep Borrell's words Europe is not very coherent with what she says, nor with her actions. Furthermore, he exemplifies the different views held by Europeans and the immigrants. In this sense, Europeans tend to believe that the frontiers must be protected to avoid the flow. However, in Mali migration is considered something important for it is a means to take care of the family, for this reason those who come back empty-handed are depreciated <R> . I do not think this is a good practice either, but I want to remark the perspectives involved in one's culture. Neither is positive the re-building of Ceuta's fence -now covering the wires with a piece of clothing- with the purpose of not letting no one trespass it <R> .


   This is why the E.U. has committed to elaborate a Common Asylum System. The deadline they have arranged for it is the year 2010, and it will be built on the respect for the Human Rights. Amongst their objectives are to be able to vouchsafe asylum to those who have applied immediately; the same as they have a right to be granted with an interview, an interpreter and legal advice. Nevertheless, the foremost aspect is that it is going to be collaboration with U.N.H.C.R. and NGOs. Its aim is to share expertise, information and the best practice available. Thus, they remark that the tough work derived from decision-making concerning asylum seekers will be alleviated and ameliorated <R> . As long as this law is ratified and properly exercised, I believe, the situation of most refugees could improve considerably. At any rate, we should not forget that the effort to be made does not only concern to the political apparatus of the E.U., but also the whole of its inhabitants. 
   

To conclude, this paper has presented succinctly the current E.U. policy on asylum seekers, along with the drawbacks found in them from a more humanitarian perspective. When, how, where the refugee needs to apply for asylum; how countries make them bounce from one place to the other and how insecure this might be for them. The problematic situation created by illegal immigration is the nowadays focus of discussion; and how sharing more responsibilities in helping refugees all over the world is a task E.U. must undertake as one of the powers in the world. Integration is another aspect to be implemented in future policies so as to achieve a better understanding between the cultures in contact. Therefore, campaigns raising more public awareness of the refugees situation and a more protectionist policy towards them is all we need to ask for for the moment being, which is in process due to this law is being created.
