The recent beginning of the academic year in Spain has been the reason behind which, the media have paid attention to this issue among students, parents and professors in order to claim the improvement of  the spanish educational system  and to put it on the same level concerning to top countries such as France, United Kingdom or Germany in the matter of education and culture, giving special importance to principles like respect and tolerance so that we achieve a better co-existence, with a resolute commitment to be able to solve the new problems that the spanish education faces up to this early 21th century. The increase of harassment complaints made by the educational organisms and victim's families has amounted up to 59 in the last academic year 2005-2006 together with several cases of suicide attempts. On the other hand, the number of foreign pupils at school and institutes in course 2005/06 has multiplied by 8 (up to 529.4619) with regard to course 1996/97 , most of them , around 80% placed at centres and public schools, grouping students of more than 65 nacionalities. In the same manner, a research carried out in May '06 reflects that 1 in 4 professors (around 24%) that impart classes in public institutions have been direct victims of student's and parent's violence, being a 72% of them predisposed to a depression' leave, stress or the so-called "burn out" syndrome. In this essay I'll deal with the idea that prevention is the unique and best way to reduce the violence that spreads out all over the spanish educational centres.

The Government must be the first to support educational institutions. Therefore, state force and security corps have to play an active role to guarantee the integrity both of professors and pupils. Personally speaking, the implantation of a police supervision at the entrance and exist of the teaching centres is one of the main steps as a dissuasive measure as well as an effective manner of counteracting the violence outbreaks, aggressions or threats that may come up. In my view, with the purpose of speeding up the formal complaints, the police should have the use of a database with a relation of the students they keep watching over, to be able to make them to those who commit acts of violence, coercion and/or intimidation, aiming to deliver them to court, in order to hasten the process of investigation by the judge and to protect the victim as quick as possible. Obviously, this sanction may disgust to those who consider that streets will count with fewer security authorities and as consequence, the citizenry will feel insecure, provoking reiterated protests in view of the lack of means to fight the delinquency. It is also reasonable to think that there will be parents that will deny to provide their personal data to create a police register, due to the origin of such measure may also be used with other purposes as prosecution of offences, tax fraud investigations, etc. However, I'm convinced that the surrounding in which learning develops has to constitute a space of tolerance and respect that represents an incentive and motivation indispensables, where going in and going out from school/institute must bring a feeling of tranquillity and well-being.

Several sectors have requested the necessity of a change in current laws. Some parents and professor associations consider that the responsibility be completely assumed by the Government by means of "Ley del Menor" and "LOU" reforms. That's why they claim that any expression of violence or threatening sign be considered as an offence, whose punishment be to observe a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 2 years in young offenders institutes depending on the seriousness of the action committed. These associations claim the dialogue as a fundamental basis in order to acquire a deeper,  mental comprehension of how knowledge is an indispensable tool that will open every single path the subject will fancy going through. Parents also argue that their figure has to play a main role when at internment, that is, a timetable for visits, helping out their sons/daughters to feel that care and affection that are essentials in teenager's formation, adjusted, however, to a specialist's decision so that the treatment goes on properly without imbalances. A process that necessarily takes time, but that will work in the interest of boarders say parents. But I strongly believe that, adopting this proposal we fall again in the same mistake. The reason why I claim for a specific law at schools and institutes is the prevention of offences rather than having to solve them so I suggest the following: To allow educational centres to create a control committee integrated by social educators that faces up to preventive measures in order to make the public institutions, safer places whose main objective would be: To improve the security at classrooms and lecture rooms by the presence of security guards in charged of supervising the pupils, being authorised to expel any student who disturbs the normal pace of living together along with direct connection to the police station at any time, as well as a surveillance footage in each room to be able to use it as a proof  when in court.

To finish with, I think it's also relevant to point out the implantation of an X-ray device at the opening doors to detect if pupils are carrying any kind of pocketknife or razor together with the inspection of weapons to avoid tragedies that we usually see in the US. I'm not exaggerating, with the explosion of immigration, the so-called "ethnicity" has emerged with new problems because of a multicultural society where not everybody feel integrated on it, so it is short of inevitable the rise of groups more and more independent from  the rest, as a way to recognized oneself part of a collective and thus become more self-confident.

Spain is the european country that, by far, receive the largest number of immigrants each year. I tend to believe that law is not adapted to this phenomena and it's urgent to find solutions for a pacific surrounding at schools and institutes. The isolation and rejection of foreign students has, I'm sure, risen the cases of violence and so this is a proposal with a double aim: On the one hand, to rely on a student assistant of each of the nacionalities registered at schools and institutes so that he/she becomes a psychological support for the pupils, a person who will help out and motivate those who have lost their self-confidence and will fancy listening fellow countrypeople's stories. Moreover, this figure will be in charge of giving cultural information class once a week so that pupils start accepting others people's view of life and customs, approaching to a closed door, where in many times, ignorance becomes an impassable wall that creates stupid prejudices and false beliefs. Besides, it would offer new vacancies for unemployed immigrants that haven't got a chance yet. Although there're been cases of judges and jurists that have claimed that it already exists an educational inspection system, which sets a protocol of actuation when mistreating pupils, giving psychological support, health attention  and protection to the victim. They also suggest that immigrants be moved away and put in different classes with native teachers as well, in order to follow the educational system of their respective countries, as a way to make easier the development of their knowledge' acquisition, concerning to future possibilities when going back to where they came from. For my part, they are abandoning once again the most important goal: the prevention. That is, poor cultural level drives us irremediably to a state of alienation in which our perception of other people will fade because of an ignorance that will become a huge monster whose contempt will find no limits, able of the most horrible offences, nourishing with others' suffering. 

Professors are also a part of the problem and of the solution. As far as I'm concern, the so-called "burn out syndrome" is due to long stays at the same centre and so it has effect on professors' performance. I tend to believe that students are not just the only responsible of having reached this point of desperation among professors, as the lack of formation derives towards a spiral of indiscipline whose consequences culminate in a completely loss of motivation. But as simple as this: Professors would rotate from one  educational centre to another every academic year, according to the area they live in, in order to improve their enthusiasm, facing new challenges with renewed illusions and perspectives, being absolutely much more psychologically prepared and that will have immediate repercussions in students' performance as well. Though this decision does not satisfy the conservative side, people who went to the so-called "old school". They just claim a return to old methods: discipline, authority and physical punishment. According to this criteria, they want professors to do strict teaching courses to get back the effective strategies used by their tutors so that teachers recover a sacred respect of their figure. However, we now live in an open-minded society where such rules would certainly put the risk of teachers by receiving hundreds and hundreds formal complaints against them. Old techniques belong to old times, so there's no point on going back to those days of repression and prosecution, we need a step ahead, a firm decision to stop teenagers from committing constantly abuses and not to hark back to ancient phantoms. 

