The growth of the number of crimes committed by children under 18 years of age in Spain during the last decade has brought about social alert and preoccupation. Why it is occurring and how to cut off this seemingly unstoppable phenomenon are some of the main concerns for the Parliament as well as for ordinary people. The present legislation concerning this matter, called Ley del Menor and regarded as deficient and exceedingly indulgent with young criminals, is pointed out as one of the major causes of this problem. Another is said to be the negative propaganda against strict, constrictive educative models that give way to free lax education. In this essay, I will present my own view of the possible causes and prevention of children and teenager's delinquency, focusing mainly on the deficiencies I find in the present legislative and judicial policy, specially the Ley del Menor, and in how I think all this problematic questions could be prevented.

Personally, I believe that part of the whole problem does come from a widely spread overprotective attitude towards children, including those who commit crimes repeatedly. I think that, probably as a consequence of years of oppressive and restrictive education of certain generations of Spaniards, specially during and after General Franco's dictatorship, a good deal of today's parents have chosen a free, indulgent way of bringing up their children, avoiding all sorts of physical or verbal punishment that are considered as ineffective and typical of old fashioned, conservative constricting societies. I consider that, following faithfully and blindly pedagogical and psychological beliefs, parents have often left the responsibility of education to school teachers and tutors, who are meant to be the specialist on the subject and are also expected to be the authoritarian figure children do not have at home and not only teachers of mathematics or language. This seems to be as impossible as wrong, in my view, since one single person cannot instill values and give practical academic knowledge to a group of, in best cases, 20 pupils in about 6 hours a day with enough care and time to be devoted to each of them personally. I find that the problem of children violence and delinquency is to a certain extent a consequence of this redistribution of responsibilities since, also lead to by their lack of time to devote to their children's education and instilling of values, parents assume the role of mere food and home providers who seldom impose their authority and are open to negotiating every request of the child, no matter how absurd or transgressive it is, just for the sake of dialoguing and not imposing their own will. Infants, in my opinion, notice this and take advantage of it by ignoring their parents advice and acting as they fancy, knowing that their behaviour is not good or appropriate but also aware of the fact that breaking the rules will be worth it because the price to pay will never be very high.

This lax paternal authority based only on dialoguing and verbal persuasion is too, in my personal opinion, a wronged response to the influence of the Behaviorists currents prevailing in today's educating trends, which state that <Q>  <R> . It seems to me that these behaviourist guidelines are sometimes followed to the dot, ignoring special circumstances in which these basic teachings are not appropriate or  efficient enough, such as extreme violence, robbery, sexual attacks or even murder. Therefore, for me these measures of education are somehow misunderstood and not well adapted by those who simply reinforce good behaviours and forget to discourage strongly children from doing the bad ones, that is, rewarding good behaviours and not rewarding the bad ones. This system does not seem to be, in my opinion, a good way of educating. I consider that a 14 years old teenager is well aware of what is right and what is wrong, so when he or she misbehaves there is a particular motivation that leads him or her to do it, being that an inclination to the bad action or an insufficiently persuasive reason to avoid this act. Concerning serious offences such as burglary, murder or rape, there is normally a well settled consciousness of that being bad and of not performing these actions. Children or adults who cannot distinguish between good and evil are, fortunately, rare exceptions in society and are labelled as psychologically anomalous. According to this, I believe that the average delinquent cannot be treated as disordered people, as some defenders of the Ley del Menor may argue, but as bad-educated ones whose fancies and random wills prevail upon the others' safety and rights. They have not probably been educated as to feel mercy and empathy for others and, to me, this merciless behaviour has to be removed before instilling good values in them. Therefore, I would say that strongly persuasive measures are needed to prevent delinquent children from committing the same offences again or different ones, those being, for example: firs, temporal deprivation of liberty in real isolation from society in specialised penal centres well secured and survaillanced that mean a real punishing and therefore persuading measure for them, secondly, work involving functions in which they can be in contact with victims and with social purposes under police surveillance so they become get close to victims and society needs and suffering and, finally, isolation from the environment in which the child has committed the offence/s, including all that inside the penal centre that may be against his or her re-education. These, I personally believe, could be viable effective measures to prevent reoffending.

Those reinforced penalties for crimes committed by children or teenagers are, in my view, a good persuasive action which serves as an example together with bringing down the legal age so that children who commit adult-like crimes are, as far as possible, judged as adults and considered fully responsible for their crimes. One may think that a child is not as conscious as an adult when performing a crime but I strongly believe, knowing that offences performed by teenagers between 14 and 18 years of age have increased in number and in violence during the first 5 years of the Ley del Menor <R> , that this indulgent legislation, far from fulfilling the re-educating aim it initially pursued, has lead to a sense of impunity among children when committing crimes and therefore a feeling of crimes like murdering, rape or torture being unimportant or not too serious. I would argue that if a 15 to 17 years old boy or girl learns that killing several people would only cost him or her a maximum of 8 years relatively confined plus 4 years, at the most, of liberty under surveillance according to the original Ley del Menor, rising the penalties up to 10 and 5 years respectively as the present reform says <R> , the real significance and how important a human life actually is is not being well conveyed to him or her by society. In mi view, they can interpret that since the Parliament values the loss of several human lifes at a penalty of a few years of relative deprivation of life, it is worth nearly nothing.

It seems to me that, in the Ley del Menor, the educative purpose has taken up the penalising function of the legislative system giving excessive and exclusive importance to the re-education of children who commit offences. Punisments are left a bit aside and, as I consider, wrong educational measures are used to reinforce good behaviours among children. With a relative deprivation of freedom in centres that provide them with food, shelter, clothes and faccilities such as school training, extra-scholar activities, sports, excursions, etc, I believe that young criminals must not find any punishing measure in being "confined" in such places. Furthermore, in many cases they seem to be better looked after and cared than at their own homes, if they have one, and they also have the chance of escaping from them relatively easily, committing further crimes and, if they are cought again, going back to the same confortable conditions. This, to my consideration, remarks the inefficiency of these specialised centres for young burglars, rapist, drug dealers or murderers since not only seem to be unsecure but also unable to fulfill the purpose they have been created for. In one hand, all the facilities and services the inmates are provided with from the very first day they entry seem to me a strange way of teaching those children and teenagers that they have been sent there to be punished for something bad they have done. On the other hand, it is not uncommon that security agents, educators and staff from these centres are attacked or threatened by the children in there, a prove of a need for stronger security measures and of  the failure of this system for persuading as well as for re-educating.

To sum up, I would say that a set of pro-reinforcement and anti-punishment pedagogical trends together with a punishmentless legal system are leading society to an ill educated youth that does not find actions like murdering, torturing or raping as bad enough as to avoid performing them.

