

Darwin's theory of the evolution has both proved the common origin of human being with other animal species and explained the actual supremacy of mankind due to an outstanding adaptation. This supremacy has been taken for granted for thousands of centuries and it was not until the 1970's that modern pro-animal rights organizations and movements have started to protect non-human animals actively. The current situation is a struggle of defenders of animals rights and dignity against a system that employs animals for different usages in the benefit of mankind.

According to Allen <R> , in general terms it can be said that there exists a traditional belief of the animal's lacking consciousness, something expressed in the absence of speech and a theory of mind and the incapability to reasoning. For that reason, this tendency does not contemplate animals' rights or dignity and is in favour of employing animals for different purposes for the benefit of men. At the same time, more recent perspectives claim that the absence of speech is compensated by other communicative devices such as those of whales, bees, dolphins, apes and so on, and that it has been proved that animals like non-human apes become aware (conscious) of their own existance, they are self-aware <R> . Besides, they consider that being sentient creatures is enough an argument to take animals into deeper consideration and to respect them more. Therefore they refuse any non justified treatement of non-human animals that may go against their dignity and physical integrity. My purpose in this essay is to display the different positions concerning animal rights related to the controversial topic of the use of animals in medical research, adding some analysis from a personal point of view afterwards.

In one extreme, there are groups that refuse all kinds of experiments or studies that involve manipulating animals, either for human or animal health's benefit. They totally reject experimentation with animals in investigations of the cosmetic industry and, even more, they believe that no medical advance can be worth the life or suffering of a living creature. They support their claims on the idea that both human and non-human animals are equal beings so mankind should have no power over other creatures alike it. This does not seem to be their only demand since they also ask for <Q> . They pursue the recognition that <Q> . Accoding to this tendency, it should not be allowed to enslave, eat, wear or torture any non-human animals  in our societies <R> . This appears to be a very radical position in my view. Though I find reasonable the avoidance of the use of animals in the cosmetic industry while possible, I tend to believe that animal models are essential today in medical research, otherwise advances in both human and animal health would falter or at least slow down.

More moderate positions advocate the progressive replacement of animals in medical research, such as in the case of FRAME (Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments). This British organization seems to accept the need of an effective alternative to animal experiments before an actual abolition of it <R> . One of the main arguments in favour of the future abolition of animals in scientific studies is the extremely large amount of creatures used in them. I think that one of the possible solutions in the short term could be to reduce as much as possible the number of animals employed but this measure could possibly have a negative influence on the advances achieved. Nevertheless FRAME, like other organizations and ordinary people, values the benefits obtained so far from animal experimentation and is aware of the dependence mankind on them to preserve its present welfare and its continuity. This seems to me an important advantage that we should try to maintain but if a solution for animal experimentation is not found, it should be at least minimized. Speaking personally, I feel that experimenting with animals seems to be unavoidable for the moment for the sake of medical achievemnts. I would also dare to say that the methods available today could reduce laboratory animals' suffering to a tolerable stage, so I support the employment of a reasonable amount living creatures for the benefit of millions of human and non-human animals' health. From organizations like FRAME the same aims are pursued: <Q> <R>  but they acknowledge that no other effective methos are available yet.


From the position of medical researches it is argued that animal models are an essencial step in the studies of living systems. Other methods exist, such as <Q> <R> , but as the AMP (Americans for Medica Progress) maintains, in order to perform reliable safety tests animals must be employed before applying any medicine or clinical treatment to human beings. Medical institutios are aware of the claims of enviromental activists. Some animal rights' defenders attribute to animals consciousness beyond mere instinct. They argue that animals do not perform only instinctive responses to environmental stimulus but are also able to control their actions consciously as human beings do. Were it true, one of the main differences generally believed between human and non-human animals would be invalidated and a large amount of moral and ethic problems would arise that will affect feeding customs, farm animal industries, our relation with domestic animals and pets and, of course, medical research. To what extent these capacities described are alike humans is more arguable. However, pro-animal rights organizations tend to expand the basic cognitive attributions supposed in apes, the ones more similar to those of humans, to all animals in order to avoid classifying non-human animals into first and second class ones. Medical organizations and institutios tend to reject or simply ignore these theories and continue experimenting with animals to find new treatements or further knowledge of living systems. In my opinion, this attitude should not be judged as cruel or neglecting without taking it seriously. Though I strongly believe in the weight of economical interests for medical research, for me it is not the only profitable reason for investigation. I tend to consider the ethic and moral dilemma faced by the medical community as a tough one that is resolved on the basis of seeking the benefit of the maximum number of individuals by the sacrifice of as few subjects as possible.

To summarize, presently there is an important controversy on whether employing animals for scientific experimentation is morally acceptable or not. The criteria followed combines the need for advances in medical research that presently are only effectively reachable by means of animal models and the moral dilemma of animals having consciousness or not and rights that should be respected. More radical defenders of animal rights firmly reject any kind of use of animals not only for medical investigation but for any profitable purposes like feeding industries, hunting and trapping, exhibition in zoos and so on. In a mid position there are those who consider important to maintain the advances in medical research but claim for a progressive replacement of animals for other methods in such investigations. And finally, the medical community defends the indispensability of animal models in present medicine for accurate and reliable achievements that do not endanger human and other animals integrity. For me, the most reasonable point of view seems to be that of continuing animal experimentation in a moderate, rational manner until other alternatives are worked out to replace them.




4


