Since some years some industries, for example the music industry, have been 
fighting against an enemy that is hurting it in most of the world: the illegal copy 
and distribution or what is popularly known as "Piracy". Piracy can be in many 
ways. The illegal sales in the streets, the illegal downloaded by internet or 
falsification of products are the main. In this essay I will explain my opinion 
about why to contribute to this kind of crime is not good so why they should be 
finished the sooner the better.

My first reason to declare that piracy is not good is that it is illegal, so this 
means that everyone who contributes to piracy is committing a crime, so it 
would entail consequences such as fines or even prison. The main problem to 
this is that today there are not laws powerful enough to these crimes, so people 
do not consider them as important crimes; although they are not small crimes at 
all and the punishment for these crimes can be fines or even prison. Where 
the infringing activity is for commercial advantage or private financial 
gain, sound recording infringements can be punishable by up to five 
years in prison and $250,000 in fines. Repeat offenders can be 
imprisoned for up to 10 years <R>.

I strongly believe that the falsification of products do not have any quality control 
because as the criminals who make these falsifications try to lower the prizes, 
the less people implicated on the manufacture the less money products cost, so 
this means that the quality of these products is usually poor. Of course the 
prizes of some fancy articles can be too expensive to most people, so, buying 
fake products is a cheap way to access to similar articles. But some fake 
products such as medicines or razor blades can be unhealthy. <Q> <R>.

Another aspect that I personally feel is that legal products can offer guarantee 
something that in my opinion is difficult to find in illegal products. The legal 
products in case they are faulty can be returned or changed for another similar 
article; or even if having any problem you can claim to the authorities. But this 
does not happened with fake products. It is my believe that If you have any 
problem with an article bought in the street you can not returned it , first 
because a shop is always there, but street shoppers do not stay in the same 
place for long time, and second because they might not to change you the 
product or bring you back your money. And, of course, you can not reclaim to 
the authorities because you bought something illegal because you committed a 
crime.
I would argue that a very important consequence that buying pirate things entail 
is the losses that this illegal sale produces. <Q> <R>. This 
means that many companies do not earn money enough to cover the expenses 
that manufacture of things produces. It is true that most of the affected 
companies earn lots of money but these could do that in some time the 
companies will have not enough money to produce more or more variety, so 
these products could even disappear. Trinidadian singer and songwriter 
David Rudder said it is very painful.<Q> <R>.
It seems to me that many working people losing their jobs or fighting salary, 
people who needs their salary to feed their families, is related to the losses that 
piracy create. <Q> <R>.
Most people who buy illegal copies use to say that they prefer to give the 
money to a <Q>

Another reason for me to not buy illegal copies is that many mafias profit from 
the money get in piracy activity. In most of times these mafias are the same that 
promote the illegal immigration of women in order to make them to prostitute, 
the traffic of paedophiliac material, drug traffic and terrorism. It seems to be true 
that not all the money earned benefits these activities and part of it goes to 
people that really needs money, but the prize to pay for this "charity" seems to 
be in my opinion, too high because at the same time this kind of activities are 
financed. <Q> <R>.

Another thought for me to be against piracy is that it usually does not result as 
planned. When downloading songs or movies I often find that they are not 
satisfactory to me, because they are not complete or in the version or language 
or quality that I look for. Especially movies I like to watch them in Spanish or in 
the original version, so downloading them from internet means to choose just 
one language or downloading them several times, besides, most of times it has 
been recorded in a poor way in theatres with a home camera so the quality of 
the image is even poorer.  People who download music and movie from internet 
use to justify their actions by saying that prizes are very expensive and this way 
they get what they want in a cheaper way. Nevertheless I do not think this is 
true because at the end they spend more time and more money in things like 
telephone or the cost of the line than buying them in a legal place.  

To sum up piracy is an illegal activity with many consequences such as losses 
of a great quantity of money for many people, people losing their jobs, no 
guaranties, barley any quality, and the financing of many mafias and terrorism 
organisation that spend part of the money they earn in committing more and 
bigger crimes. This makes me think that in case the situation changes not only 
companies, but many industries would have a dark future or even disappear. 
Maybe there is not the perfect solution now, but I hope there will be someday. 
Until that day comes maybe the more effective solutions are to investigate in 
order to make a pc program or anything in order to make the copying 
impossible or at least more difficult, more police control, reinforce the laws and 
penalties for these crimes, and mainly, to become people aware of the fatal 
consequences, in many situations, that something as simple as buy a Cd in the 
street have.   


