
There are many ways on preventing a pregnancy nowadays. The most popular 
are the use of condoms, the pill or diaphragm. But many of these common 
methods can fail, for example, condoms can tear, or the diaphragm can slip. 
This is one of the main reasons why most people think that there should be 
some emergency methods to prevent a non-desired pregnancy. One of these 
methods is the Emergency Contraceptive Pill or what is commonly known as 
"the morning after pill". There are many opinions and points of views on the use 
of this method as not everybody agrees on the reason to take it. In this essay I 
would expose and analyse the main views that this polemic entails. 

The first view to take in consideration, and probably the most polemic, is the 
one that does not agree with the use of the morning after pill at all. This opinion 
is supported mainly for the most conservatives groups that maintain a moral 
ideology. They consider, among many other ideas, that the morning after pill is 
a way of abortion <Q> <R>. and it can help people to hide their 
sexual life to their partner when talking about sex out of the marriage or 
teenagers to their parents and, also, teenagers could consider this pill as 
another contraceptive method more, not as an emergency method. However 
this point of view has weakness. This view seems to be quite wrong for many 
people who think that the Morning after pill is not a way of abortion as there is 
not human life germinated yet. And when referring the teenagers it seems to be 
quite difficult for most of them to get the drug as it is more expensive than other 
contraceptive methods such as condoms, so they could not afford it as an usual 
contraceptive method. 

On the other hand it is the opinion of those people who agrees with the use of 
the Post-coital pill in every case. These people maintain as one of their stronger 
points that it is not an abortive method because the ovum is fertilized yet, so 
there is not life to be aborted yet. Another point they claim is that it is the 
mother's choice and not anybody else, to do with her life whatever she wants, 
so she is the only one in decide whether she takes the pill and in what 
circumstances she takes it. They also point out that it is very effective to control 
the birth rate especially when talking about the rate of non desired births. This 
might be very helpful to women who can not afford a good life to their children, 
for teenager mothers or women who might be pregnant after a sexual assault. 
Although this point of view appears to be quite persuasive, it has certain 
weakness first because the pill can not be consumed in every case. It should 
not be forgotten that it is a drug, so it could be bad for many women <Q> <R>. <Q> <R>. and second, the consumer should not forget 
either that as many drugs it has side effects <Q> <R>. 

Other point of view in this topic is probably the most common. This viewpoint 
supports the use of this pill but not in all the cases. People who defend this view 
do not agree in all the cases. One case that most people agree is the use of the 
morning after pill in case of rape. This means that if a woman suffers a sexual 
violation she is in her right to decide what to do in case she suspects she could 
be pregnant, so getting the emergency contraception is an easy way to avoid a 
pregnancy which the mother did not look for and that could remember her the 
not easy to accept experience of suffering a rape. This argument seems to 
make sense, not only because that baby that would come to life is a non 
desired baby, but because the mother who did not expect that to happened 
maybe could not afford the baby a good environment. 

Another point that many people agree is the use of Post-coital pill in case 
another contraceptive method, such a condom, fails. This means that if while 
having a sexual relationship the condom tears the pill would be very helpful to 
prevent a pregnancy.  This point is rather convincing, although many people 
would think that many couples would use the pill in excess because the Post- 
Coital pill could be had after having sex without taking precautions. But this 
opinion could be rather weak as the Morning after pill is more expensive than 
other methods <Q> <R>, and it does not protect of sexually transmitted diseases <Q> <R>. 

People who agrees the use of the Emergency contraceptive pill just in some 
cases also agrees, but not as generally as in other cases, in the use of it in case 
of having sex under the influence of drugs or alcohol <Q> <R>.The situation point out before would 
entail that one of them or even both people in the couple is not aware of what 
they are doing, so they might doubt whether they have take precautions or even 
if those precautions were not faulty. This could be considered a realistic 
perspective as many people anytime have lose control, although, first, people 
should be responsible enough to know when they have to stop and second, the 
habit of taking precautions for one's security might be almost systematic. 

To sum up there are many points of view to this topic and the main are those 
whose point of view is against the pill always, whatever the circumstances are 
arguing mainly the respect for life, those who think the contrary, that is, that the 
pill can be take in every circumstance whose main argument is that it is not an 
abortion, and those who think that it depends on the circumstances as there is 
not two identical persons, so there are not identical cases. This polemic will be 
probably debated for long time, so it seems to be very difficult to find a solution.  
However I think that the respect for everyone's opinion would work now 
because there are not wrong or right views as they depends on how you look at 
them.

