Since the middle of the 20th century many restaurants classified as Fast Food 
restaurants have emerged all over the world. The origin of these restaurants is 
settled in California in the United States during the 50s, but as time has gone by 
these restaurants can be easily found in most countries. The increasing 
popularity of these restaurants has contributed to the apparition of researches 
and sources based on the nutritional information about his kind of food and their 
repercussion on human health. In this essay I will expose and analyse some 
different points of view that this popular kind of food may cause.

There are many people who like Fast Food. Usually they declare that they like 
this food because it tastes good and it is cheaper and faster than any other food 
that can be found in any other restaurant. They also say that the accessibility is 
a good reason to eat in Fast Food restaurants. In big cities it is usually easy to 
find several of them, and they usually have uninterrupted timetable. Many of 
these people say that they also like Fast Food restaurants because they are a 
good place to spend the day with the family, as these places often have special 
places for children to play and in most of these restaurants, they give a toy with 
the menu for kids, so children usually like them <Q> <R>. 
I think their point of view has many weaknesses. For example, I agree that 
these restaurants are cheap, fast, and easy to access to, but I believe that the 
difference of price if comparing to other places is not so large, and I strongly 
believe that there are many places to go with children which could be better for 
them, for example the zoo or any park.

On the other hand there is the group of people who do not like Fast Food at all. 
They usually maintain that it is not nutritive, in fact, they are supported by many 
researches that conclude that a very frequent consume can be really unhealthy 
provoking illnesses such as obesity and heart problems. They also tend to think 
that it is one of the main reasons for the children's obesity <Q> <R>. as in many schools in the 
United States this kind of food is served in their daily menus and it makes it 
easier to access. Those people who do not like Fast Food usually claim that the 
production of this food is not very trustworthy. There is scepticism around this 
subject, about where, how and with what this food is made, and this scepticism 
is increased by all the secrets that are kept. <Q> <R>. In my belief this opinion makes sense. I find it very difficult to trust 
something that I eat when I can not find out easily what part of an animal it is, 
as for example this is easy to see when talking about Mc Donald's Nuggets, and 
when I do not know who has cooked it, where and under what circumstances. 
<Q> <R>.

As in many topics, in this one there are some points of view that could be called 
middle points. A very common opinion is that of the group of people whose 
opinion is that it is not good both in quality and taste but who eat it anyway. 
There are many reasons why they choose to eat something that they do not like. 
Mainly they claim that the accessibility of Fast Food restaurants is a great 
advantage for them. One of their reasons is the fact that, as the name of this 
food says, it is fast <Q> <R>, 
so in many cases for those people do not have enough time to have meal in a 
better place, they find a handy solution. In addition to this, they resort these 
restaurants because there are many, so in most cases, they find one near them 
so they get in there sooner than in other places. Another advantage that people 
who have not enough time to have meal properly claim is that these restaurants 
are open continually through the day, so they will serve you despite what time it 
is. This situation is quite understandable but I think that it is the simplest 
solution, because I believe that if someone looks for them, there are many 
places not far from you, where they serve you very fast, at any hour and the 
quality of their products is not so doubtful. 

Another reason why people who do not like Fast Food eat in these restaurants 
is that they are usually the cheapest places <Q> <R>, so people who eat out everyday, do not 
spend so much money than they could do if they eat in other place everyday. 
The biggest weakness that I find in this opinion is that I do not think that 
someone's health could have any price, so I do not understand that people who 
eat this food often just because it is cheap though they know that a frequent 
consume can be very unhealthy. I also find that Fast Food has not much variety, 
despite Fast Food restaurants try to innovate, so I could prefer to spend more 
money so I should not eat the same day after day and it is easy to discover that 
many times the product itself has not changed, though its name has.

To sum up, there are mainly two attitudes on this topic which are the people 
who like and almost love this food and those people who do not like this food.  
Then it is those people who do not like Fast Food but who eat it because of 
many reasons which seem to be more important than someone's health. In my 
opinion though people know something is not good for them, for example Fast 
Food or even cigarettes, they choose its consume for many reasons and at the 
end, they suffer the consequences. Of course, the perfect solution would be that 
everyone became interested in their own health, but it seems to be a difficult 
solution. Maybe a possible solution would be that no information about Fast 
Food should be a secret anymore, so that way every consumer would know 
what he/she is eating and choose to have something without surprises.





