
      For many years, the possibility of legalizing abortion in Spain has become one of the most controversial issues among people. A recent study indicates that approximately 46 million of abortions take place each year all over the world and about 20 million of them are carried out in countries where this practice is prohibited by law <R> . Thus, it could be significant to say that in many underdeveloped places such as Romania, Africa or Latin America abortion is illegal while Sweden, Canada or the United States are examples of developed countries where abortion is legal <R> . On the other hand, people in favour of abortion (pro-choice) argue that it is the mother's choice to have a baby or not. However, those against abortion (pro-life) claim that it is a very violent way of getting rid of a child. Finally, other people feel that it depends on the circumstances. In this essay I will intend to present objectively a number of different perspectives concerning abortion.
      
      To begin with, pro-choice thinkers say that a woman has a right to decide how to control her own body. One possible argument in favour of this is that it is her who has to deal physically with the pregnancy and who is psycologically more affected <R> . Therefore, some writers go beyond and feel that the fetus <Q> <R> . What is more, it could be argued that firstly what is important  is the living's rights. Although these viewpoints appear to be persuasive, they have certain weaknesses: A) It has been said that through abortion not only the fetus'right to life is deprived but also its valuable future <R> . B) It would be reasonable to consider that if the pregnant woman is a minor, she should ask for her parents' consent <R> . C) Some people argue that not taking into account the biological father's rights could lead to sexual discrimination.
       
      On the contrary, one of the main arguments against abortion is that it is the murder of a person. It has been pointed out that human life begins at the moment of conception and a proof of this is that <Q> <R> ). Another reason wich shows that an unborn baby is a human being is that it feels pain when it is manipulated: It has been suggested that if a fetus is stuck in its hand, it opens its mouth and draws its hand back <R> . This point is rather convincing although it could be argued that the ability to feel pain is not totally developed until between the 7th and 8th months of gestation, and it is apparently true that abortions do not happen after 24 weeks <R> . An additional point is that considering a human being as such since it is conceived is a Christian belief, so for people of other religions such as Judaism, who support that personhood begins at birth, it would not be a valid argument <R> . Moreover, it appears that the term "person" implies having several properties as reasoning, self-motivated activity or a capacity to communicate of which a fetus only has one: conciousness <R> . Consequently, the idea of not considering personhood as a provable biological fact could be reinforce by saying that the fetus needs its mother's body to survive since it is joined to her through the placenta and umbilicus <R> .
      Having said all this, it might be important to point out that there are other people who justify abortion only in certain cases. First of all, it appears that a woman that is victim of rape or incest should have the possibility of aborting. Most people feel that carrying the child to term would be undoubtedly harmful, as it would remind her of a violent and cruel act <R> . The problem with this argument is that it is unfair for the child to pay for the father's sin. On top of that, it is probable to argue that very few women become pregnant due to rape (5.4%) and before it happens, there is also the option of taking medical treatment (<R> . Next, it is widely believed that teenagers are not ready for responsibility because they are too immature. It seems that looking after a child requires an stability and mental disposition that not every young woman has. Nevertheless, pro-life advocates consider that <Q>  <R> . A further point could be that psycological help as well as courses focused on birth are available for them. Then, it is reasonable to say that a majority of people can not afford a baby. To show it more clearly a survey indicates that economic reasons is the first cause of abortion (21.3%) <R> . This may be true but it has been suggested that money is an excuse for abortion as there is always the alternative of adopting. Lastly, some feel that if the baby is born with a mental or physical illness, it would be better to abort. It has been claimed that these defects would not let the child develop itself totally as a human being so it and also its parents would have to face a very difficult and painful life. However, other people say <Q> <R>  as it happens for example with blind, lame or people with down's syndrome. In addition to this, it has been suggested that nowadays the great advances achieved in technology and science make people with health problems' life easier. 
      
      All in all, we have seen that this is a very controversial topic which brings about many different perspectives. Firstly, pro-choice believe that abortion is a very important decision that should be taken by the mother because it basically affects her. Secondly, pro-life groups argue that abortion should not exist since it is the killing of an innocent human being. Finally, most of the people consider that it is quite a delicate issue which is related to many other aspects: rape or incest, resposability and maturity, economic situation or baby's defects, for instance. As a result of this, many people wonder to what extent the government should intervene in this problem in order to come to a solution.



