
      Christmas is a typical tradition that has been celebrated all around the world for many years. It is likely that in its origin, this festivity commemorated the birth of Christ on December 24 and the arrival of the Three Wise Men who brought him gold, incense and myrrh on January 6, according to Christian religion. However, it appears that eventually the meaning of the Christmas season has clearly changed and Jesus is not the reason for it any more. In fact, it seems that nowadays Christmas has become a poular tradition that has nothing to do with the real sense of the holiday and which is based on costumes such as decorating trees, sending greeting cards or giving presents <R> . In this essay, I will intend to present objectively a number of different perspectives considering why Christmas should be celebrated or not and I will analyse them according to my personal point of view.
      
      To begin with, one of the main arguments against Christmas is that it has become a commercial festivity in which the interests of enterprises have an important role. Some of the evidence shows that in this time of year there is an excessive consuption especially with regard to food, clothes, perfumes, toys and technology: a recent study indicates that Americans spend at least 50 to 60 billion of dollars on Christmas <R> . Some proves of this are that not only big malls but also many shops are open even on Sundays and television is full of attractive advertisements that invite people to buy in a compulsive way and forced giving. Therefore, it has been said that this extreme waste of money might be leading to a serious materialism that affects fundamental values. In my view, this argument seems to make sense because I strongly believe that big companies are the main responsible for creating a culture in which spending money is synonymous with having a good time or being fashionable. Speaking personally, this is a very negative point as it promotes the differences among social classes and the discrimination of people without economic resources <R> . Moreover, I would say that it is immorally wrong to spend such amounts of money if we take into account that it could be used to help needed people who suffer from illnesses or starvation.
       
      Another argument against Christmas might be that it is by far the most overwhelming time of year since everything is collapsed. It appears that uncontrolled shopping is one of the reasons for crowded places, which have direct and remarkable consequences: huge queues, long waitings, products that run out, etc. Moreover, it has been pointed out that Christmas has also an adverse effect on travelling, mail, telephone calls or the Internet: according to the Air Transport Association of America nearly forty million people travel from December 17 to January 3 and according to the US Postal Service, the volume of mail traffic trebles during the week before Christmas <R> . For my part, I feel that this is a logical argument because in this sense Christmas implies a bigger waste of time than in the rest of the year. What is more, the mass of people that it involves is favourable to thefts as well as to companies which take advantage of the situation and raise the prices. In addition to this, I would argue that the idea of a great deal of people having to do the same things at the same time of the year only brings about lack of personality.
      Thirdly, ecologists state that Christmas destroys the environment. It has been argued that all the trees, letters, packages, wraping paper, newspaper advertising, catalogs, postcards or lights used in this festivity are really finishing with natural resources. On top of that, it is apparently true that there are also millions of animals that are slaughtered in an excesive way for feast and fur at the holidays <R> . Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. Firstly, my own opinion of this is that the overexploitation of the entire ecosystem is constant not only on Christmas but throughout all the year. On the other hand, I personally feel that positive measures are being taken in order not to damage nature as far as possible: recycling paper, artificial trees or light bulbs that use up less energy are some examples of them.
      
      Next, many people claim that Christmas is a season for hypocrisy, forced happiness and charity. It seems generally believed that in this time of year people are expected to feel joyful and because of this, they act in many incomprehensible ways such as giving presents to people they hardly know, writing cards to "friends" they ignore the rest of the year or false cheer <R> . Similarly, it is reasonable to point out that television focuses its programmes on apparently charitable specials which seem to have no sense on March or August, for instance. This could be considered a realistic perspective, since I would say that the pressure to be happy makes lots of peple feel deppressed because it reminds them of things such as economic problems, loneliness or dead relatives. Furthermore, I would maintain that it is illogical to pretend that in Christmas everything is wonderful, when car accidents, murders or terrorist acts continue happening. 
      On the other hand, most people agree that Christmas should be celebrated because it has very positive things. First, one reasonable argument might be that it involves plenty of free time. It has been argued that a whole winter without any holidays would not be conceivable. Second, it seems that it is a beautiful time for love, peace and reconciliations. It is widely accepted that Christmas is a perfect opportunity to be good with others and also to say "sorry" <R> . Then, it seems possible to claim that thanks to Christmas many people can meet relatives and friends whom they do not see in the rest of the year. Finally, some of the evidence shows that this festivity is really desired by young people because of its fun and big parties. This may be true, but my own opinion of this is that all of these arguments are excuses since these things can undoubtedly be done in the rest of the year. In addition, I would argue that many people are in favour of Christmas just because they need to celebrate something in order to forget about their worries.
      
      Finally, it would be important to mention that there are a number of people who have mix feelings concerning the celebration of Christmas. On the one hand, it has been suggested that certain groups such as atheists or people from other religions should not celebrate it. What is more, another possible point is that they should not celebrate any holidays. On the other hand, it seems that it is not a question of religion as <Q>  <R> . According to me, I tend to agree with the following argument from Tom Flynn <Q>  <R>.
      To conclude, we have seen that this is a very controversial issue in which several viewpoints converge. First of all, I have shown how arguments against Christmas appear to be stronger and more convincing. Some of them might be commercialisation, crowded places, damages of the ecosystem or hypocrisy and falsehood. Secondly, it is apparently true that the majority of people are in favour of the celebration of Christmas due to the holidays, love, peace and parties that it entails. Eventually, I have dealt with mid-points which raise the problem of whether atheists and people from other religions should celebrate it. Speaking personally, although I really disapprove of the celebration of Christmas, I feel that it is a very established festivity that will continue for a long, long time.




