
      Nowadays, immigration has become in a very controversial issue in Spain with several consequences for the whole society. Immigrants are, on the one hand, a big and untaste problem because they are felt as a blight for society and, on the other hand, immigrants are a new phenomenon which we have not got accustomed yet to it. In fact, there are other societies which have immigrants too time ago and now, both immigrants and natives are perfectly mixed without such big problems. In this essay I will discuss about the reasons and consequences of immigration in our society and different view points by explaining arguments in favour and against it, and then I will analyse them by giving my own opinion about this topic.
      The reasons for emmigration are very different. However the most important or at least the most used are, on the one hand, to improve their economy and the phenomenon known as "American Dream", that is, immigrants feel the country where they go as a promissed land where they will be able to make their dreams into reality. Nevertheless not all immigrants get what they have dreamt. Magdalena Loor says <Q> <R> . I think that Magdalena's case is a good example of the phenomenon known as "American Dream" because she dreamt with the US. I think that those people who leave their houses, their poor jobs, their nation, their lives, must have a very strong reason to do it because I will not leave my country unless I had the certainty of having something better waiting me in that foreign country. I think that immigrants leave their country because they do not have any more options. I am sure that a person who leaves their country, does do it because he or she has finished the options off and the only oportunity of still living is to leave the country.      
      However, there are extreme cases of immigration. According to the International Centre for Migration Policy 3.600 people <Q> <R> . Some of those cases are lived in Spain, in the South with those immigrants who come from Africa. They make risk journeys. As Sgt Miguel Marin, Civil Guard in Tarifa, says <Q> <R> . Another argument used is the one explained by this Senegalese fisherman <Q> <R> . I think that the fact that some people die because of the willing of having a better life is a very important fact to take into consideration because these people do not care about if they die in the journey because they are leaving a worse situation in their country such as, a war.
      However, there are people who do not like immigrants because they say immigrants come to our country to take our jobs and to get benefits from our national aims. I think that this is not true, in fact, I feel that there are too many jobs in our country which are not desirable for many of us. I also think that immigration is good for a country like ours because the economy is better. In relation with that it is normal, then, to talk about the amnesty carried out by the present Government last year which has never seen one <Q> <R> . The government did it because it was necessary, in my opinion, to regularize the situation of thousands of immigrants in Spain because they were working here and living here and get benefits of our services (such as Social Security) without paying anything for it (in Spain all people working -legally- pay a percentage in their salaries of taxes used to pay what society needs). 
      This argument is reinforce by Secretary of State for Immigration, Marta Rodriguez-Tarduchy's words <Q> , in this process both the immigrants and Spain are winners because both get benefit of it. On the one hand, the government get taxes from people who were illegal before and on the other hand, immigrants have a legal situation in our country without being afraid of get repatriated to their country.  Having that in mind, I think that immigration is good for Spain because in my view, it is good for a society that all people working pay their taxes because with more taxes the government can give all of us more social services. 
      Something related with immigration, is the way immigrants use to get into our country. Spanish government has tried to take some measures but without too much success. For instance, last year, when there was a big throng of people tried to enter Spain in Algeciras (in the South), the authorities made the fence higher. This provoked a number of immigrants died in the frontier between Melilla and Morocco <R> . I personally believe that a fence will not keep immigrants from trying to enter in Spain. However, on the other hand, I feel that the Spanish government felt, in that moment, overwhelmed by the situation and took that measure without success, in my view. It is the same as President Bush wants to do in the frontier of the U.S and Mexico. He wants to build a big wall to keep immigrants away. I do not agree with it because a wall makes any relationship, impossible with the neighbour country. 
      
      However, not all things are negative in relation to immigration. A possitive point of it, is the high rate of births in the last years, thanks to immigrant women. In fact, according to Economist.com, Spain needs immigrants to increase its birth rate because there has been a high descent in the number of births. For instance, there were about 700.000 babies born in 1976 in Spain and three years ago there were between 400.000 and 450.000 (Europe's magnetic south: 2006). I agree with this information. I feel that we need immigrants, and among other things, to increase the birth rate is one of the things, in which, immigrants can help us, because here in Spain, there has been a descent in the last years because couples need more time to get independent from parent's house and the mortage has increased extremely its price.        
      So then, to conclude it is worthy to say that there are many arguments in relation to the phenomenon of immigration. The main arguments in favour are the aim for increasing the birth rate, for making the economy better and for getting more taxes from legal immigrants. On the other hand, immigration is seen as a big problem because some people feel immigrants as thieves of jobs or criminals, immigrants create a state of insecurity due to the high number of crimes commited by illegal immigrants. There also negative and possitive points concerning immigration. The negative ones are the illegal situation of some people, the way immigrants come to our country because they risk their lives and, the feeling of rejection from Spanish society. In the possitive ones, we can include, as I said before, the aim for increasing the birth rate, the getting of more taxes and in my view, to be a cosmopolitan society. I believe that the main problem is not immigration itself, I think that if authorities make consensus, it would be possible a better immigration policy, without fences or "pateras" (small boats used to make the journey between North Africa and Spain) and with more aims for making a mixed culture.







