       During the last years there has been an increase of violence in children and young people in schools and high schools. However the alarm got specially alarming when Jokin, a Basque boy, committed suicide last 2004 after being severe bullied by his classmates; or with the numerous cases of teachers which have suffered physical abuse caused by their students. There are several reasons for this increase of violence which, in my view, can not be accepted or justified in any case. In this essay I will argue about the causes and some possible solutions for this terrible problem.
       From my point of view, there are three main factors which contribute to violence in children and young people. These are families, schools and society.
       In relation to family, I feel that parents are the most important agent in education of children, because as <r> <q> However there are people, I dare say some parents, who disagree because they feel that schools are the institution which are in charge of educating our children. From my point of view is the immaturity some parents have. I think 
that parents should control their children's behaviour and 
they sometimes must say to them no. I believe that a negative is sometimes healthy for children because if they always get what they want then, they will be selfish and very spoiled. However, as Menéndez points <Q>. This type of parents usually relate authority with a dictarship. Anyhow, I strongly believe that without discipline and authority it is not possible a healthy growth for children. On the other hand, some parents allows violent behaviours because they do not wan children get traumatized <R>.
       Another reason which may contributes to violence in children and young people is the changing in the family's squeme. I mean, 20 years ago the most usually type of family was a marriage (a man and a woman) and the children. Nevertheless, nowadays there are several types of families: monoparental families, divorced couples, single mothers and so on. Children may live unpleasant situations like a father who beats the mother up or even the very child may suffers phisical o psychological abuse from their parents. I believe that if a child suffers abuses he may project his anger against some potentially weaker.
       The next factor is schools. As I said before, there are some people who think only schools are in charge of educating children. I do not agree with that in general, but if I look closer I must say that schools have the obligation of teach and educate children. Schools, in my view, must take measures in order to put violence away. However, I think that there must be a coordination between familiar environment and schools <R>. On the contrary, there are some people who argue that teachers must punish children at school in order to avoid indiscipline and violence. A research done by the "Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona" which main purpose is <Q>; shows that there is a breach between teachers and students because since teachers call the students' attention; students do not notice it. Each of them feels they speak the same language but, in fact, they do not understand each other. So, this reinforces my next argument. I feel that teachers have no weapons, at least these are not enough, to stop violence in their classrooms. This las argument is also supported by Iñaki Piñuel who says <Q>.
       I have told about family and schools, as factors in violence in classrooms; but I strongly believe that the most influential factor is society. Inside society I distinguish four different sub-factor. I think that some children or young people who use violence feel better when they notice other people do not do anything for stopping them. This argument may be supportted by Menéndez <R> when she says <Q>, or the need of belonging to some group may lead to use violence as the imitated group does. The next sub-factor is television. I think that an excesive time of watching television provokes children to be more violent because not all television programmes are addressed to young people and children. This argument is supportted by some American studies which indicate that children of 8 who watched violent television programmes they show a violent behaviour in contrast with whom did not.
       A more dangerous sub-factor is video games because, in my view, video games is something quite new (video games appeared in the 70s). There are some people who argue that video games are not so painful but I think that if television provokes children to use violence, what about a game in which you are the protagonist and you are very violent with the others? Well, I feel that the feeling of power felt in the video game may lead the young boy or girl to imitate that violent behaviour ir order to get that feeling of power. This idea is supportted by some researches which compare video games with cannabis or alcohol because video games could be very addictive and could provoke violent behaviour. In Spain, recently, a publication of a video game last October about a bully has provoked a controversial discussion. The video game (Bully for the American version; and Canis Canem Edit for the Spanish one) was near to be forbbiden in Spain. From my point of view, video games should be more controlled by Government since  Canis Canem Edit has been published with the sorting for teenagers. I feel that a game which allows you to be a bully and use violence and physical abuse against classmates is not something which helps against violence. Something related with this argument is the fear felt in the US of violent video games. That is so, that in Oklahoma, the Parliament has approved a law addressed to restrict the sale of violent video games in that state.
       The last sub-factor is drugs. I feel as I said above, drugs provoke violent behaviours in some cases. However the most dramatic is the low cost of them. In the last years their lost has decreased which, as experts say, is very dangerous because that may lead young people to consume more quantity of them.
       Through this essay I have tried to show the different factors which participate in violence. However I believe tht none of those factors mentioned function as a single cause of the problem. On the contray I think that a mix of some of them may lead to violence. However I will try to give some possible solutions for the different problems I have been dealing with.
       There are some countries like the US, in which this problem is being controlled since the end of the 80s. They has made some advantanges with workshop at early ages, menos like <Q> <R>. These programmes are focusses in the Middle School and almost all schools count with a mini-institution created in order to fight bullying (psychologists, parents, teachers...). Another measure is one taken in a high school in Madrid, where some teacher have created a group for the resolution of conflicts. Moreover there are students in the group which help to be more aware, in my opinion, of what is going on in the classroom.
       To conclude, I have tried to show the main causes of violence in young people and children which are family invironments, schools and society. I think that all factors contribute to a damage in a near society because we must not forget children are our future. Although it is painful, I am hopeful about our institutions and I am almost sure that in the future with the collaboration of teachers and parents and the Government we will able to get the better outcomes.






 

