Homosexual marriages and adoptions

	The possibility of homosexual marriages has generated controversy as one of the most significant changes in our society in the last recent years. Since the PSOE promissed a new law for allowing homosexual marriages as part of their electoral programme, the issue has become something alarming for a part of our society. Many people think that homosexual marriages should be avoid because they are something unnatural; however, there are other people who think that all people are equal and all people have the same rights, and one of them, is marriage. In this essay, I will try to show the different arguments that people use concerning the legalisation of homosexual marriages in some countries.

	There are people who argue that homosexual people have the same right of marriging than the heterosexual ones. They think that there is nothing alarming to be afraid of because if a homosexual couple marry, they do not harm anybody because they do what they want with their lives. These arguments seem to be quite convincing because they have as base, a right included in our Constitution. Our Constitution says that nobody can be discriminated for reasons of sex, religion or race. Those people who want marry a person of the same sex argue that they are also people as well as heterosexual ones. This argument is very convincing because it seems that homosexual people only want to be equal, not to have more rights than heterosexual people, because they are also human beings.  However it must be argued that a couple who love each other do not need be married to demonstrate their love. Nevertheless, homosexual people claim for the right of choosing what their couple and also their way of life. They need to can choose if they need an offial paper or not. Because of that, Spanish Government makes a law which allows homosexual couples to marry in city councils.

	Some people in favour of homosexual marriages argue that they do not harm you, because they do not do anything which makes you be worse. However, there other people who claims that same sex unions are harmful because it goes <Q> <R> . This last argument is very supported by the Church that says that a marriage must be formed by a man and a woman because the main purpose of marriage is the <Q> <R> . John Paul II says that <Q> . This argument, from a social view, is quite strong because human beings look for eternity and that is got by our descendants. 

      Nevertheless, there is an argument against that. <Q> <R> . This argument seems to be strong because there are homosexual couples who live together for many years. One of them works and the other works at home like a housewife; in this case if the one who works out of home is dead the "housewife" has nothing because if they are not a marriage that person does not receive any pension (widow's pension, for lesbian cases or widower's, for gay cases).  Because of that, homosexual couples need a law which regulates their situation in order to avoid unpleasant situations.
      
      The American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property says that "Human nature defines the properties of marriage as between a man and a woman with the primary purpose of procreation and the education of children". This is a very religious definition and quite subjective because maybe the word marriage has religous connotations, but then, in the same way "civil marriages" should not be allow because they are not religious. On the other hand, some people called homosexual marriages, with the expresion "homosexual unions", which do not dennote anything religious, as civil unions. 
      
       Another argument they use is that <Q> . Then, we must talk about adoptions by homosexual couples (and/or marriages). This Society, as well as others similar in Spain (for instance, "Foro español de la familia") is complety against homosexual marriages and then also against adoptions because they think that people must have children only inside the marriage. However, nowadays, it is very common to find single mothers and children are OK. The say homosexual unions are unnatural because they can not have their own children, however in Spain, it is allowed to adopt children by homosexual people, only if they do it as a single person but not as a couple (or marriage). Nevertheless, some weeks ago, the first adoption by a homosexual couple has happened in Barcelona <R> . This is very criticised by "El Foro de la Familia" because they say that it may be legal but not legitimate because, as it is said before, only a heterosexual marriage is the apt institution for having children.  
      
      However, not all homosexual people are agree with same sex unions and adoptions. For instance, Ricardo de las Bárcenas <R> , who is gay, is completely against marriage and adoptions because from his view point an adoption something with a great responsability and which must have as a basic principle: to respect children's rights; and as a purpose: to find a family for the child and not a child for a couple.  On the contrary, there are 10.000 orphan children in Rwanda, 1.200.000 in Ethiopia in 2005 <R>  or 48.000 in Guatemala <R> . Those children had their own parents but for whatever circumstance (HIV, natural disasters...) and those children need some parents, but most of all, they need love and if that love comes from a homosexual marriage, it is wellcome. 
      
      One of the main arguments against homosexual adoptions is the fact that children may have a lack of "normal" education, because they will have two fathers or two mothers.  However, there are  monoparental families which only have a mother or a father and their children are completely "normal", they do not have any sort of trauma because of not having the figure of a mother or a father. In fact, there are a recent study 
which indictes that, there are 2.200 minors who live with a homosexual couple. The number has risen in the last years, from 600 in 1.991 to 2.200 in 2.001 <R> . These facts mean that our society is slowly changing.  In relation with this, 10 or 20 years (or more) ago there were very rare the divorced couples and those children had some traumas because it was not normal, but if the topic is treated with naturalness, the children should not have any sort of trauma.

      Moreover there are some people who are changing their mind in relation with this issue. For instance, Hillary Clinton <Q> <R> . Another case of changing their mind is South Africa which is known for <Q> <R>  has recently approved the homosexual marriage. 
      
      Although, there are other countries which still are reluctant to make this advantage. This is the case of France, which does not permit by law neither homosexual marriages, nor medically assisted procreation, basically because the the commision's decision is <Q> <R> . This argument is completely reasonable because above all there must be a primacy of children's rights because they are the most important part in adoptions.

      To conclude, there are many arguments against homosexual couples and adoptions by them but a few countries are making new laws to permit it. The main arguments in favour are the fact that homosexual also are human beings with the same 
rights as heterosexual people, they  must have the right of choosing what they want to do with their lives and they do not harm the rest of people by marrying with a person of the same sex as his or hers. On the other hand, there are people and institutions which opposes that kind of marriages because they feel they are unnatural, the marriage must be formed by a man and a woman, that the main purpose of marriage must be the foundation of family, and that same sex unions are against Christian moral. On balance the legalisation of homosexual couples and their adoptions in Europe and other countries must be regulated according to the needs of society in a specific moment. 






