 
Stoning or lapidation is a form of death penalty that consists on throwing stones to a person until his or her death, used in Islamic and Jewish countries as a punishment for crimes such as prostitution, adultery or murder. In our western society this kind of punishment has barely existed and now It is seen as a cruel practice that should be abolished <R>. There are many groups against stoning and some of them oppose it actively, like, for instance, Amnesty International. These organizations try to help condemned people to stop and revise their trials or sentences claiming that many of them are quite unfair and questionable. In this essay I intend to argue that, in my view, lapidation is a cruel punishment that should be abolished in every country or culture.

Firstly, from my point of view, lapidation is unjustifiable because of its cruelty. If we take Iran as an example of a country where stoning is used, we will find that <Q> <R>, it describes how men, up to the waist, and women, up to the chest, must be buried and it specifies the size of the stones in order to prolong the victim's suffering. It can be argued that this is an antique tradition and that in these cultures they have the right to make their own legal code. However, I believe that lapidation is not any kind of death penalty, but a cruel one because they try to extend the supposed criminal's death in order to make he or she suffer. One of the seven women condemned to lapidation in Iran whom Amnesty International is trying to save declared <Q> <R>.

Secondly, It seems to me very unfair that most of the sentenced to lapidation are women, and they are condemned for adultery or murder. This make me think that stoning is a tool for discrimination because, putting a side the fact that condemning adultery legally seems absurd for our western society, there are two people implicated in adultery and murder: a man and a woman in most of the cases; and many times the man is acquitted and the woman sentenced to death. People in favour of stoning could argue that men are also condemned to lapidation and executed for murder and adultery, like for instance Alireza, a man who killed Soghra Mola'i's husband. Both are condemned to death for the murder and Soghra to lapidation for <Q> <R>. Nevertheless, in many of these sentences women are accused for the murder of their husbands when they have nothing to do with it like, for instance in the case of Iran, a woman who was attacked by her husband with a knife when she was talking with a neighbour's son. While she was bleeding on the floor, the man killed her husband. <Q>. She was sentenced to pass five years in jail for the murder of her husband and to death by stoning for adultery<R>. 

There is another case like the one mentioned above, the case of Kobra Najjar. She was supposedly forced into prostitution by her husband, a heroin addict that mistreated her. In 1995, after she was beaten up by her husband, she told a regular customer that she wanted to kill her husband, and the man did it. He was condemned to death, but later pardoned by the victim's family after giving them money. She, on the contrary, was condemned to imprisonment for the murder and to lapidation for adultery <R>. I strongly believe that it is very unfair, and nowadays unthinkable, that a woman is sentenced to death or to imprisonment for a crime she never commited, and it is even more unfair being lapidated for adultery when this woman was in reality forced into prostitution and also mistreated by her husband. It could be claimed that this is only the women's testimonies and that if a court has formulated a sentence it has to be true. However, many organizations such as Amnesty International, that fight violations of human rights, and The United Nations recognise that many of these trials are not totally fair and also that in these countries, like for example Iran, human rights are ignored.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights shows in its first article that <R>. It is also claimed that "nadie será sometido a torturas ni a penas o tratos crueles, inhumanos o degradantes". In this document it is, of course, recognised the right of life, the legal entity, the equality before the law, the protection against discrimination and the presumption of innocence <R>, among many other rights. In my view, in these countries, all these fundamental rights are being violated, and it should be changed in order to ensure everybody's integrity and security. It could be said that many of these countries do not belong to United Nations, so they do not have to fulfil this agreement. However, in my view, every human being has all these rights whether his or her country belongs to this organization or not, because it is said in the actual Declaration in the article two above mentioned.

It could be said that the Article eighteen of The Declaration expresses the right of every person to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, in addition to the right of manifesting it individually or collectively, both public or privately. And in Islamic culture lapidation is totally accepted legal and religiously, therefore stoning could be identified as a public manifestation of their thought, conscience and religion. Nevertheless, in the Article thirty of the same Declaration it is said <R>, what, in my opinion, supports the unjustifiable use of lapidation claming the freedom of religion. In addition the Quran, the original holy text for Muslims, does not include stoning as a punishment for any crime. There is controversy among modern authorities in Islamic communities in relation to the use of lapidation. On the one hand, they argue that the Quran does not mention it as a punishment, but on the other hand, new texts, like Kitab Al-Hudud, accept stoning as punishment, particularly for adultery. However, I believe that this is not only a question of religion, but also a question of law, and international law rejects totally the use of lapidation. 

I personally think that if a country, like Iran or Iraq, belongs to The United Nations, it must comply the requirements of the organization, in this case abolishing the use of lapidation and any kind of capital punishment. We have the example of Philippines, where death penalty has been eliminated few weeks ago. It could be claimed that many powerful countries belonging to The UN do not comply the conditions like the United States, for instance. It has been appointed the fact that a country like the United States, the first power of the world, should be a model for the rest and close its bases, upon which exist suspects of violation of the human rights like in Guantanamo. And it could also be claimed that  after the explosion of the Iraq war, the UN lost some power because the countries that decided to attack Iraq, making the excuse for Hussein having massive destruction weapons, did not listened to the UN's report. Nevertheless, many other countries like France or German are also models to follow, and they do not ignore the UN, either break the agreements made by the organization.

To conclude, I have tried to show that the use of lapidation should be abolished all around the world, it cannot be justified because of several reasons. Firstly because it violates the human rights, it is not applied after unquestionable trials, but after quite unfair ones. Secondly, because it is used to prolong the agony of the accused, what demonstrate a great, unnecessary cruelty. Thirdly, The Universal Declaration of Human Rights rejects it, as well as every form of capital punishment. In addition, original religious texts, such as the Quran, do not mention it as a kind of penalty. Finally, it is quite obvious that lapidation is applied mostly to women, what means that is a tool for discrimination. It is very difficult to find a solution because it is a question of culture and education, but in my view lapidation is not justifiable at all in our moral code, at least in our western moral code.








