                                                        
In our present society we have great advances in the technological field, in health investigations, in transports; however we still discriminate people in different ways. Progress is still difficult specially to women because they find obstacles, in particular when applying for a job and even more when they try to ascend in their position. Recent studies have shown that this year the number of women in a "boardroom position" (12%) has descended compared to the previous two years (17%) <R> . Some people say power is reserved to men; nonetheless some others think women do not really want to occupy high posts. What we know is that females began fighting for their rights towards the end of the 18th Century and they are claiming them yet. Historically, the western society has been a patriarchal one, so changing this costume is not easy at all. Depending on the point of view, women's role is conservative or progressive. In this essay I will intend to discuss different opinions on the treatment women receive from the modern society specially in working environments.

To begin with, some people support the traditional role of women. A role that consists on staying at home, bringing up children and housekeeping. We can take as an example the opinion of Rick Santorum, a republican US senator, who says in his book <Q> <R> . He thinks that those parents both working outside the home, do not actually need to. In addition, he defends the traditional family structure as a solution of many "social ills" and he insists on parents spending more time at home with their children. Senator Santorum's ideas are shared by many other people that strongly believe on the guilt of modern values concerning to society's problems such as <Q>  which lead to <Q> <R> . They argue that if mothers stay at home, they can transmit the traditional values what would avoid children's future misbehaviour, but if they do not and they resort to daycare, society will suffer it because of its negative impact on children. The problem with this argument is that it is quite discriminatory because these people only propose women to stay at home, while men are also perfectly able to bring up their kids and keep their house. This is also a weak argument since it takes moms at home as a solution for some social problems, however there are already mothers taking care of their children at home and these problems happen every day, what demonstrate that it is not a very good solution. It could be claimed against this argument that in many houses two salaries are needed, what force parents to work.


There are other people who partly agree and partly disagree. They also claim that daycare is not a good idea because children have to be brought up by their own parents. 
On the other hand, they disagree because they do not think this is a problem exclusive to woman, men have to deal with it too. These people argue that bearing and raising children is not women's only purpose in life. They defend equality in this issue so they propose one of the two parents, no matter if the mother or the father, to stay at home <R> . Moreover, there are associations of fathers which claim their right of raising their children because normally the custody is automatically given to the mother in a divorce, and they feel discriminated in this field. They argue the necessity of <Q> <R> . This argument is stronger than the previous one because at least it includes more possibilities since it also takes in account fathers as responsible of children, so we can say it does not discriminate anyone. However it could be said that bringing up children is not a matter of gender since kids are involved in it and they are directly affected hence this topic might be out of sex differences discussions.

Concentrating more on the problem of women when applying for a job or scaling the ladder of posts, some people believe that nowadays gender is still an obstacle. According to INEM statistics on October of this year, in Madrid there are 104.024 unemployed; the 58.7% are women and according to the UK Resource Centre for Women in science, engineering and technology, women occupy a 24.1% of posts in the UK and a 20.8% of management positions in this specific sector. Feminist associations and independent people maintain that this is a clear prove of the unfair situation of women in society, they are relegated to a second place. In an article in the British newspaper The Independent, Joan Bakewell said <Q> <R> . In the same article she describes a conversation she heart in a train. There were four businessmen who she identified as "elegantly dressed pillars of society, men of influence, no doubt with top jobs..." talking about women in their enterprise in a pejorative tone, opining about their "buxom attributes". This leads her to claim that it is society's fault because <Q>  and promoting a <Q>  image as the perfect for women.

Bakewell affirms that females are not brainless for top jobs, but that <Q> . She says only those who run their own businesses are those who flourish best. The journalist thinks women will improve their situation because they are deeply introduced in communications and commercial success is shifting towards this direction. She gives the example of the BBC, which is controlled mainly by women since 1980s and where rules an exemplary <Q> . She thinks this system will triumph so that women will access to top posts. In this argument is being presented how hard can be for women getting a job and ascend to higher positions, all supported by data. Therefore, it can be said that this is a reliable argument because of its objectivity given by factual information. However, perhaps the apparent personal implication of the journalist reduces this objectiveness. In spite of this, the fact that women use up only a 20.8% of managers positions is quite eloquent, that is to say, evidences the reduced number of them compared to men. This suggests exactly what these people maintain, that it is more difficult for women to ascend and even to get a job.

In opposition to the previous opinion, there are those who think that women have no actual problems to promote any more, but it is women themselves who do not want to. They affirm that women prefer not to spend much time on demanding jobs, in particular women with children. This is the case of the journalist from the Times, Gillian Bowditch. She says that <Q> <R>  this ceiling glass is referred to discrimination and limited-to-men power. Moreover she defends that nowadays gender is not a problem and that bosses want <Q>  indeed. Bowditch adds that not every women need to engross high positions because <Q>  which means that we all cannot access to it, but only a few. She supports her opinion with the decrease of board female in the last two years and with the equality legislation made by governments for the last twenty years in Britain to improve women's formation. She assures that <Q> . In addition to this, she thinks that feminist discourse is harmful and untruthful since it still maintains the idea of sexist discrimination affecting and limiting women progress which she disagrees. She also believes that many females do not consider <Q>  their priority because it is, in her words: <Q> , so she suggests that this is typical of men. She ends saying <Q> <R>  Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. Firstly, the argument of high positions as a "minority sport" seems logical, however this minority might be impartial and it is not, as data show. Secondly, no reasons are given to explain the decrease of women on these posts, so it could be produced by the difficulties women find when they are on the top, in other words, some difficulties generated by discrimination could make women desist from fighting. Next, when she says there are not many women who cite discrimination as a problem, she specifies "outside of London". This could be interpreted as an argument against her own opinion because it seems that she is making an exception and accepting that in London exist discrimination problems. It is possible to argue against this viewpoint that women earn less money for the same work. Nowadays this is widely reported and denounced by the western society, even governments try to fight this issue which is an obvious prove of unfairness. 

So then, this essay has considered different views about discrimination against women in western society. A first argument has defended the traditional role of women as housekeepers and children raising, but could be seen as a discriminatory argument itself. The second argument shows the opinion of people that claim the necessity of parents taking care of their children without recurring to daycare. This argument seems logical and stronger that the first. The third view maintains that being a woman makes getting a job and rising positions more difficult because of discrimination. So this argument affirms the existence of differences at work and denounces the lack of respect from some males towards females. This opinion is very well supported with data from statistics. The last argument suggests that women do not want to fill management positions, that now there are not many difficulties to rise the level at work, it maintains that being there up is not a must for women and that this is not a goal for most of them. This view is at some points contradictory and weak. In conclusion, we can affirm that discrimination still exist but in a smothered way. We can also demand the responsibility of men in this subject since they might accept a change in their traditional role, although some of them already act in order to finish with this problem. Sexist discrimination is a problem of everybody and it must disappear as any kind of discrimination.
