Drug use have existed over the last 10 thousand years. About 8000 B.C. humans consumed mead, an alcoholic drink made from honey and ancient Greeks used opium as a ritualistic and pleasure drug <R> . We can find Marijuana references at least since 2737 B.C., in a pharmacy book written by a Chinese emperor and nowadays the most widely consumed drug is caffeine <R> . So, we could say that drugs have been used from the very beginning of humanity, however some of them are socially accepted and some others are conceived as illegal ones. On the one hand we have governments fighting narcotraffic, and on the other hand this trade moves tons of money all around the world, therefore we have billions of people consuming these drugs. What we all know is that drugs harm our organism and that we can become addicts. Some people think that education is the best way of prevention, nevertheless some others argue that it is not an effective method. In this essay I will present different views on why people use drugs and how we can prevent it, and then I will analyse them.

Firstly, we could find an answer to the following question: why do people take drugs? Andrew Weil, a graduate of Harvard Medical College, provides a possible solution to this question. He assures that human beings bear with a desire to alter their consciousness periodically <R> . He explains that we can notice this since we are kids when we play spinning on ourselves, as well as many other games, what results in an alteration of the consciousness. He gives a second reason which is that <Q> <R> . Again alleges to this supposed humans desire of alteration of consciousness, and he claims that if they are legal or not is not important. Finally, he also argues that humans have used drugs from the very beginning in any place on Earth. Moreover he classifies the phenomenon as a <Q> <R> . In my view, this is a reliable argument because Weil is an expert on the subject, however I do not agree since I believe many other people do not take drugs, what to me seems a strong argument. Basing my affirmation on his own words: <Q> <R> , I maintain that nobody can survive without any of these two. When a person does not eat s/he dies, and we all are alive thanks to the act of sex, however I strongly believe, and it is quite obvious, that human beings do not need drugs to survive. Therefore, I think this argument is weak since it is not based on factual studies.

Secondly, other people argue the contrary, that humans do not bear with a predisposition but that they learn it. Edwin Sutherland, a well known sociologist from the University of Chicago, claims that <Q> <R> . Ronald Akers, another specialist maintains that <Q> <R> . What we can interpret is that people use drugs in order to be socially accepted and that when they try to finish it they cannot because they are already addicts. In my opinion this is a logical argument because usually people who consume drugs are associated to people alike, on the contrary people who do not consume are associated to healthy people in this way. It is also true that some people in spite of socialize with drug users, they do not consume themselves, but they are more in danger of consuming substances than people in other social environments, in my opinion. 

Referring to health, one of the most strong points against drugs is their harmful effects.
In the 30s, Harry J. Aslinger was the Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics and he described <Q> <R> . It has been proved that this substance has similar effects on health as tobacco, for example lungs cancer and neurological problems <R> . Alcohol, although legal is one of the most dangerous recreational drugs. It produces <Q> <R>  among other effects. Narcotics such as heroin put the user in danger of oxygen insufficiency in the brain, also called "heroin overdose" or it can provoke a cardiovascular and respiratory systems shutting down. From my point of view these are reasons enough not to consume drugs. They produce too many risks of even death and you can get many sequels after using them, so I would argue that all drugs should be treated equally, including tobacco and alcohol, and that people should be well informed in order to make a realistic decision towards them. In my view, we tend to forget that alcohol and tobacco are drugs too in spite of being accepted by society, and that they produce many illnesses and accidents, even more than the rest of the drugs. However, I partly agree with this quotation from Weil: <Q> <R> . This affirmation seems quite logical, nonetheless I would say that when this happens it is a serious problem, I mean that I would consider this level alarming. In Canada 1631 deaths were caused by alcohol in 2002 and, in the same year, 91.970 hospitalizations were attributed to net chronic disease derived from alcohol consumption <R> . I believe we should think over this topic, should not we do anything about it? Maybe, in my view, education may be a good way of prevention.

As regards education, controversy is served. On the one hand, there are those who think that education is the only way of preventing drug use; on the other hand some people maintain that the education policy on drugs is quite ineffective. Among the firsts we find the US government having the Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools. This is a program aimed to <Q> <R> . Most of governments have these programs in schools and also other campaigns like, for instance mass media's. In my opinion this is a very good way of preventing drugs among young people. However, I can say that I had these classes at high school and they were not very effective. Many of my classmates are in drugs despite being informed of its risks. To me those classes were interesting but most of people thought they were unreliable because of exaggeration. Perhaps the problem is how these classes are focused. Scaring people about drugs effects might be changed into what actually drugs produce in your body.

On the contrary, some people think education, the way it is done so far, is not efficient enough. C.E. Faupel, G.S. Weaver and A.M. Horowitz, from the University of Auburn and of Delaware, in their book The Sociology of American Drug Use say that drug education has failed to impact in United States society, though some approaches have more effectivity than others. They think <Q>  if not, young people notice the manipulation and loose any respect towards authority <R> .  I totally agree with this argument. As I pointed out before my classmates realized the manipulation of reality Faupel, Horowitz and Weaver speak about. In this book I have read a very eloquent testimony from a heroin addict explaining how she became addicted: <Q> <R> . I believe that this kind of experiences show us how exaggeration in this can be even worse, so the most logical measure could be to give accurate information in schools and anywhere. Nowadays, I have noticed we do not lack information, we know drugs risks and harmful effects but if you give "bad" information to a teen dying to be socially accepted, s/he will ignore it and s/he will follow his or her way, what will probably lead to an unhappy end. 


To sum up, I have talked about why people consume drugs. Firstly, we have seen Weil's theory of predisposition and innate desire to loose consciousness. Secondly, we have dealt with Sutherland's disagreement and theory of "learning to be accepted" which seems quite logical to me. Next, we have read something about drugs effects and some people's opposition because of their harmful consequences, what I mainly agree. Finally, we have talked about education programs which some think they are effective and some others believe they are wrongly focussed. I share the last argument because I have seen the ineffectiveness of these classes. To conclude I would propose to make an effort on accurate information and reliable didactics as a good preventing program, because in my own experience, what is really important is a strong education against drugs. I am of the opinion that one does not need any chemical substance to have fun, but just some friends and good music as a perfect combination to enjoy one's self. 


