       The issue on how to reduce poverty in the world remains unsolved and actually still devastates the majority of the Third World countries, according to the World Bank estimates more than 1.1 billion people live in extreme poverty. Despite the efforts of several international governmental and non-governmental humanitarian organizations that try to work out plans to eradicate or in some way reduce world poverty, it seems to me that there is no straightforward forthcoming solution on the horizon. One of the last appeals made by the Secretary General of the United Nations to give <Q>  to the Third Word would mean that each citizen of the wealthy countries would only have to contribute with <Q> ; a small price to pay considering what we pay for other commodities. Therefore in this essay I would like to point out some of aspects of this significant issue and will give a personal perspective of what I consider could be done.
        
       Apart from the appeals, made each year by the U.N. Secretary-General, in 2005 the United Nations developed an ambitious plan to halve extreme poverty and save the lives of millions of children and mothers each year by 2015; in order to achieve this, the rich First World countries, must double their aid offering from a quarter to a half of 1 percent of their national incomes.  I consider this can be a good measure to alleviate some of the needs of the poorer countries. In fact, five countries have reached this goal - Britain, France, Finland and Spain- but the U.S. government has not made a comparable pledge and is the one with the smallest percentage among the donor countries (less than 0.2 per cent) although the Bush Administration has increased this percentage to 0.10 percent; personally I think that considering what the U.S. government spends on their military budget, this amount is still low in comparison with other European countries.  Nonetheless, according to the United Nations Millennium Project, poverty goes beyond living on less than one dollar a day; it also has to do with illiteracy, sanitary facilities, hunger, water facilities, and diseases. Then again, there are other factors that contribute to worsen this situation, especially for women; the WHRnet (Women's Human Rights net) has found among others the following: the prevalent violence against women, gender inequality, the increase in militarism and fundamentalism, and environmental degradation. On the other hand, I consider that poverty has also an impact of the right of every human being to have equal opportunities to lead a life without being deprived of the essential things. Likewise some organizations indicate that poverty constitutes "a multiple violation of human beings fundamental rights, as it is laid down in international human rights agreements".  
      
      Nevertheless poverty does not only strike people living in Third World countries, since in the rich industrialized countries there are thousands of people who live in very demeaning circumstances and somehow the percentage seems to increase each year. According to the ECPC Organization 3.4 million children live in poverty in the U.K., and The Campaign to End Child Poverty, will continue to pressure the British Government to halve it by 2010. Additional studies made in the European Union indicate that sixteen per cent of EU citizens are at risk of poverty. Obviously poverty is not the same in all European countries, for example in Spain the percentage is 20% only surpassed by Portugal and Greece. However, I think that that poverty in the First World is not exclusively due to a money problem, although if a person does not have an acceptable income, he/she can be headed towards an unwanted situation such as being homeless, unemployed, drug abuse, or social exclusion, etc., furthermore these factors along with others may trigger and lead a person to get into a spiral which ends in poverty.  I think it's urgent for our society as well as city officials to deal with these problems and find feasible solutions with persons who live in our midst, although according to experts these problem affects more people living in the cities where the migration from the rural areas have propitiated the creation of slums and shanty towns.
      
      There are other goals which need a special attention, such as the devastating effect of poverty on women as in underdeveloped countries their conditions are worse by far in comparison to men. In Africa more than 40 percent of women do not have access to basic education. I believe that education is one of the main factors that can help underdeveloped countries to reduce their poverty, but of course education should be equal among boys and girls. To make this possible, and to ensure that all the children will have a full course of primary schooling, rich countries must help in the construction of school facilities in the Third World.
      
      Of course due to the fact that economic aid is so important, and in view of the persistent governmental corruption in some countries it's no wonder that some aiding countries <Q> . It is also true that poor countries need to work harder on such issues such as corruption and the rich countries need <Q> . Although it is true that there is corruption in all countries, according to economist Jeffrey Sachs, it is a like an infectious disease that can be controlled but is very hard to eradicate specially in places where there is no transparency or where the rulers cling violently to say in power, where it is very difficult to build an effective school system, a health system etc. I think that corruption is one of the main setbacks but one must consider that some money goes through the official channels and reaches the people that are taking care of helping those in need, such as Doctors without Frontiers or other non-profit organizations.
      
      There is also the ethical issue of how much money should a person give, and of course from my point of view it's quite different to be a normal with an average income to be a rich millionaire. As an example, George Soros, financier and philanthropist <Q> . This extraordinary contribution will help African farmers to have better crops, which is a very commendable gesture to be copied by others rich and famous. Possibly in the long run it would be better to help these farmers obtain a fairer distribution of their crops similar to those of the rich industrialized nations; I am not saying that money is not important because evidently it is in order to get things done. But the exports of the poor countries have fallen in comparison to the industrialized nations and that affects their economy in a negative way. For example, today Africa only exports one-third of its grain whereas in 1960 it was a net exporter of food. 
      
      Another additional problem that besets Third World economies is the huge external debt some have to pay that in some cases could be condoned by the IMF (International Monetary Fund). From my point of view it seems a difficult task for underdeveloped economies to get ahead if they have to pay their debts leaving them with less economic resources, it seems to me that when the receive money from the IMF they have to give it back leaving them in the same desperate situation. It would be convenient to study the possibility of implanting some "national and international measures in order to make debt sustainable in the long term". 
      
      Furthermore we cannot forget about the long term armed conflicts, either between different ethnic groups or political factions that devastate many Third World countries. These conflicts contribute to the endurance of poverty and make people's living conditions extremely difficult, forcing them to abandon their lands, livelihood and become refugees. Secondly, many armed conflicts are responsible for children being abducted and forced to become soldiers against their will. In order to put an end to this situation I consider that the First World governments should enforce international laws against selling armament. Another solution would be to intervene and seek an endurable peace process that would enable refugees to return to their homes to start exploiting their own resources, to help these countries to establish a democratic system as well as their own economies. Obviously it has to be a peaceful process and by no means create an unsustainable situation such as the one in Iraq. 
      
      Another goal against poverty would be to implement a fair trade for either agricultural or manufactured goods that will "enable people from all over the world to live with dignity and invest in their families, communities and environment. Also the Fair Trade Federation is <Q> . I personally think this is something that should be enforced and encouraged by the governments of the rich nations also people need to know that this is an efficient way to support the developing economies, as it is a way to help people help themselves. Because poverty cannot be eradicated only with money, the underdeveloped countries need to have enough resources to have the opportunity to get started on their own. It's not only important to give a fishing rod, it is also important to teach people how to fish. 
      
      In conclusion, I have tried to focus on some of the possible solutions to world poverty, in spite that it is very difficult to reach fair and definite solutions to such an endemic situation that affects more than three thirds of the world's population. The Third World now needs the First World to take urgent measures and provide an efficient co-operation, so these people can reach the living standards they are entitled to and have been deprived of for so long and thus have access to sufficient food, adequate shelter, safe drinking water, education, and proper medical care. It will take a great effort on our part to overcome all the difficulties and obstacles we will find along the way, but it is indispensable to put our egotism aside and lend a hand to those in need.  If we succeed only with a part of this endeavour, I think there will come a day when the world will be a better place to live in, although this may have been said many times. 





      
