      Surrogate means substitute, thus a surrogate mother is a woman who willingly carries and delivers a child for another woman or couple due to infertility or other medical problems; about 15 percent of the married couples in most Western countries are unable to have children. Surrogacy can also be a solution for couples of the same sex or bachelors who want a 50 percent genetic child of their own.  Although it may seem a modern solution to an old problem, surrogacy has been here since ancient times, in the Genesis it appears twice <R> . Nowadays the "Human Assisted Reproduction" laws consider surrogacy as one of the alternative reproductive solutions to infertility, although there is a strong religious and moral debate whether it is ethically feasible or whether it is wrong. The controversy is particularly concerned in establishing the rights of the surrogate, the child and the intended parents. In this essay I will try to show the divergent positions several civil and religious organizations maintain regarding surrogacy.

      In the first place, among the religious groups the Catholic Church is particularly and strongly opposed to all forms of assisted conception and surrogacy, in their opinion it is contrary to the catholic tradition in which marriage is considered "a divine institution" that does not allow the separation from sex and parenthood. In other words, unity and procreation are inseparable within the married couple and if the sexual act between them does not produce children then it is morally wrong to use a third party (a surrogate mother) in the process of conception, gestation and birth.  According to the Church's 1987 statement by the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith entitled "Instruction on Respect for Human Life in Its Origin and on the Dignity of Procreation", if it is wrong to separate procreation from unity with the use of artificial contraception, it is equally wrong to separate procreation from unity and have children apart from the sexual act of the married couple.  Furthermore, according to the above statement approved by Pope John II surrogate motherhood is not only morally illicit, it should be prohibited by legislation. One of the arguments given is <Q> . 

      Nevertheless, even though the Catholic Church admits that infertility in married couples is very heartbreaking, as an alternative they recommend Catholic couples to consider other important human services which they can render such as adoption, various forms of educational work, assistance to other families and to poor or handicapped children. In addition, the Church encourages scientists to continue their research in trying to prevent the causes of sterility so that sterile couples will be able to procreate in full respect for their own personal dignity and that of the child to be born. Obviously many infertile Catholic couples disagree with this attitude, as they consider that the Church does not express enough sympathy to their problems as the solutions given may sound noble but with a hollow ring when a married couple longs for children of their own.  Another problem for the Catholics who do not agree with the Church is that they compare adoption to surrogacy, because they claim that children who are adopted are not <Q> ; and to this the Catholic Church offers the argument <Q> .

      In spite of the strong arguments presented by the Church not all the Christians agree in everything regarding human reproduction, it seems that some infertile couples some Catholic scholars and Protestant pastors who respectfully disagree with the Church's attitude towards artificial insemination, nonetheless support the official Catholic position, when it comes to the intervention of a surrogate mother, which is not surprising.  Other Christian groups such as the Anglican Church are less rigid in its views it has not condemned its practice, although it has expressed some concern about the rights of the surrogate mother and the relationship that should be maintained with her child even though she hands it over to another.  According to the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology the position about surrogacy of the other religions ranges from not prohibiting its practice, such as the Jewish where the child belongs to the surrogate mother and to the father that gave his sperm; and the Islamic that seems to hold a similar view as the Catholic Church, although it may be permissible between wives with the same husband. 
      Nonetheless, surrogacy is not only a religious matter, in the European Council "The Federation of Catholic Families in Europe" requested to delete surrogacy from the draft regarding human reproduction techniques and for the delegates to vote against it. The Federation does not agree with the arguments given by its British delegate Michael Hancock to justify the <Q> . Another argument against is that the draft gives the false impression of a necessity to regulate surrogate motherhood across Europe and it considers that the legal solution to this problem should be left to each state.  On the other side Mr Hancock argued that <Q> . To make his argument more convincing he presented the example of a couple who yearns for a child and for whom no other medical solution is possible. In this case when someone plays with human emotions it is difficult to determine who is right.

      However, in some instances surrogacy is not considered illegal and can be practiced provided it follows strict legal conditions.  Three members of the European Council -Greece UK and Russia - allow its practice however in the other 11 member states it is expressly forbidden. In Spain although the reproduction law does not allow surrogacy under any circumstance, but according to Roberto Matorras, President of the "Sociedad Española de Reproducción Asistida", is in favour of contemplating the possibility to allow surrogacy for those couples who can not have children.  In other countries such as the UK where surrogacy is not illegal, according to the Royal College of Midwives London, the law Surrogacy Arrangements Act 1985 and the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 distinctly prohibits commercial agencies to profit from surrogacy however it allows the intended parents to pay for the "medical costs". Other associations such as the BMA (British Medical Association) add that the child must be genetically related to one or both parents. Despite that in some countries the law permits surrogacy under certain conditions, one of the main objections is against commercial surrogacy as it argues that in some cases the agencies can obtain a profit from the arrangements between surrogate mother and the intended parents. In order to stop possible abuses these agencies are not allowed in the UK, while in the United States some states are trying to legalize these commercial transactions. Another serious objection against commercial surrogacy is that it can reduce children to mere objects by putting a price on them and human beings are not things that can be purchased or sold for a price; also that it is exploits the surrogate and violates a mother's fundamental right to raise her child. In spite of these setbacks, the Christian Research Journal states that the couples who wish to have genetic related children will likely insure a brisk business for practitioners of reproductive medicine. It seems that this can not be avoided if the agencies are made legal and in order to make such arrangements both parts have to contact with them in order to obtain a child.

      Another argument about the moral implications is when money becomes one of the key factors that can make poor women agree to carry a child and hand it over to another couple, undoubtedly leads into financial as well as physical exploitation. Some others go as far as to suggest hiring poor women from the Third World which clearly would give way to exploitation.  One possible solution to avoid discussing about money with an "unknown" person, could be to reach an agreement with someone who is a relative or a close friend who altruistically agrees to be a surrogate mother, always bearing in mind that she is the natural mother and should have rights too and should not lose contact with the baby she has given birth to. This supersedes the eventual wrong that either the surrogate or the intended parents can do. Obviously, even if both parties agree, it is without a doubt a business transaction where someone pays for the services rendered. Surely in this case it cannot be considered morally and ethically acceptable; even if some groups acknowledge the need for legislated guidelines and regulations. 
      On the contrary some groups in the UK such as COTS (Childlessness Overcome through Surrogacy) in favour of surrogacy under certain legal conditions argue that this is a way to let unfertile or same-sex couples become parents instead of having to resort to adoption also it is a way to insure that the child will at least carry part of the parents DNA. Others maintain that some surrogates take it as a mission to bring happiness into other people's lives and that few are unwilling to hand over the baby once it is born. This may be an overstatement as researchers from City University in the UK interviewed dozens of surrogates and found that the reverse was generally true. Other of the women researched found that it boosted their feelings of self-worth. Of course both types of behaviour are possible as we are dealing with very intimate human feelings and there is a very special bond between the child and its natural mother.

      A different side of this issue is what happens in the United States where some states consider commercial surrogacy contracts legal, provided among other things that the surrogate mother is married and has experienced a live birth, furthermore it does not permit a financial compensation for the surrogate although lawyers can be paid for preparing a contract. In spite of this in sixteen states is still illegal but Utah's Senator Lyle Hillyard, is of the opinion that the absence of surrogacy law leaves both parents and surrogate mothers without the protection of legal contracts apart from protecting families from being at the mercy of the courts. Obviously as the laws differ in each state the debate is divided between those who consider surrogacy as a benefit for all the parties involved, and those who believe that it treats babies as merchandise and exploits the surrogate's financial condition.  Additionally some feminists argue that a contract pregnancy involves an alienation of aspects of the self so extreme as to make it an illegitimate practice, as it deepens the stereotypes of women as baby-machines and it alienates women from the love of her child. Although other feminists argue that legal contracts allow women to have more choices over their reproduction. 
      In conclusion, this debate is far from being solved as it is very difficult to give a definite solution to problems that affect human nature and feelings. One of the main setbacks is the divergent opinions that range from the total prohibition from a religious, moral and ethical standpoint; others in favour of surrogacy as an altruistic act argue that this is a way to bring happiness to others who otherwise are unable to have children; while others defend the need of a having a contract regulated by law, but they are also torn between the benefits it can bring and the moral implications of in some way commercializing with human beings. It is needless to say without a doubt that human beings are not THINGS.





      
