      In spite of the efforts of some lawmakers and organizations to ban illegal weapons, some associations like the powerful NRA (National Riffle Association) of the United States that says: <Q>  is not in favour of banning weapons. Even though, every day the newspapers tell us about a new school shooting somewhere in the United States. Like the 1999 Columbine High School massacre that killed 12 students in April 1999; or the recent killing in October 2 2006: of 11 schoolgirls in the Amish community of Nickel Mines, Pennsylvania who lined them up and shot them each at point blank range. In addition, every other day we hear news on T.V. of yet another violent domestic killing, because someone owns a gun or another type of weapon has decided to go out into the street and kill someone, or even to commit suicide.  I will try to show in this essay why it would be advisable to ban weapons, which are not only dangerous but are the cause of so many violent deaths and/or severe injuries.
      
      In the United States, the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution makes it legal for <Q>  to posses a weapon: gun, rifle, or hand weapons. Their main argument is that <Q> . But of course it can be argued that if you have access to a gun it is more likely that you'll end up killing someone, which is an argument used by other organizations which are in favour of banning guns like: <Q> 
      
      On the other hand, European countries have taken the decision to ban <Q> . In my opinion, the right thing to do for any citizen possessing a gun or riffle, for any reason, is to go to the police and obtain the corresponding license. Furthermore, the police should be the ones carrying weapons so they can deal with the violent criminals. They should be the ones responsible for the defence of the <Q>  against the criminals. 
      
      It seems that another ban issue affects toy guns or fake imitation guns looking realistic enough to be mistaken for a real gun. However, the "real looking" toy guns are not only ones that are going to be banned; it seems that in some U.S. cities like New York, is contemplating the possibility to ban the normal "toy guns" being displayed in public places, or allowing the kids to play on the street with these toys guns. One of the reasons for doing this is the number of armed robberies that have been performed by adults and even children with toy guns that are not easy to distinguish; like: <Q> .  In addition, the police in the United States have been known to shot down someone carrying a "realistic looking" toy gun in their hands. It is the "shoot first and ask later routine".  
      
      In my opinion banning "toy guns" seems a little harsh, as several generations of boys as well as  girls have played at "cowboys & Indians" or "cops & robbers" sometimes in their lives. Also at Christmas, it was normal to ask your parents for the latest gadget, like "G.I. Joe"; and that did not mean you were going to grow up and start shooting spree. Parents should teach their children that "toy guns" are exactly that, toys; that real weapons are dangerous and harmful, can kill or cause severe injuries; also, the shootings & violence shown in the movies and T.V. are representations that do not constitute a good pattern of behaviour in real life.  Additionally, for safety it is convenient not to let children exposed to any kind of weapon, or let them to find one in their homes. If someone is a hunter or a police officer, his firearm must be locked away in a safe place without ammunition. From my point of view, It seems useless to ban "toy guns" when real weapons are not considered as illegal, and anyone can have one or more at home where they can be easily found by children. 
      On the other hand, firearms, other hand arms, and knives as folding knives, do not just injure or kill other people, they can also inflict serious injuries to the person who is handling them. The handling of firearms has caused the death of the person who had it in his /her hands in numerous cases. I personally think it is potentially dangerous to possess any type of weapon without taking the proper security measures. According to the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution: <Q> .  However, this can be considered as something of the past 19th century in the times of the "Wild West", when people lived in constant danger and needed weapons for their protection against the wilderness.  At least that is what the American Westerns show us, the west as a dangerous place where everyone has a gun and uses it to defend himself from the "bad guys" or the Indians.
      
      Another problem is the availability and how cheap it results to obtain firearms in the United States, this together with the permissibility of carrying weapons is also giving some organizations the argument that weapons are not a bad thing "since people have the possibility to defend themselves from criminals, who will think twice before attacking someone with a gun". To make matters even more uncertain in the convenience of banning weapons, police departments in some major cities of the United States are claiming that crime rate has gone down since people have the possibility to carry guns; and how it was they other way around when these cities banned handguns  <Q> .  This is not only happening in the United States, in the U.K.: <Q> . The problem seems to be in hands of the criminals and the laws that do not enforce enough the fight against violent crimes. The police seem to find it very difficult to stop the escalating of violence. 
      
      It looks like everyone who is in favour of taking the guns away from criminals have to face the fact that criminals are more inclined to obtain the arms from the black market or they can obtain it more easily through other channels. It seems like a contradiction to make stricter laws against illegal weapons and make it more difficult to obtain a license; because when the criminals, who are the ones that break the law, reach the age of 18 have it very easy to obtain all kind of weapons to kill innocent people who cannot defend themselves. In addition, the police find it more difficult to defend people against violent crimes, so it seems like we are going around in circles.
       
      In the majority of the European Union countries, the possession of weapons is illegal, to own a firearm a person needs a permit for the ownership and use of firearms, and always for the practice of sports. For example, in Spain, the "Guardia Civil" gives the license for firearms and the owner must be: a person with no criminal record, practice a sport that requires a gun or rifle, pass a series of theoretical and physical exams, Spain is the only country in the E.U. that requires passing these exams in order to extend a firearms certificate. 
      
      Of course, if the law only applies to "illegal firearms", I think it would be convenient to apply it against other small weapons or hand weapons, which are not always considered as totally illegal, also because they are easier to conceal. However, they are also responsible for a great deal of killings of innocent people. 
      
      In conclusion, if guns alone "can not be held responsible" for killing people; perhaps we the "civilized people" living in civilized countries should change our mentality and try to solve our problems without having to resort to weapons. Violence is not the answer as it only leads to more violence. Weapons will not lead to the solution of our conflicts; it will only bring on a higher level of violence and an "eye for eye" if we take the justice in our hands. We need to give more importance to what we can do to help us make our society and the world a more peaceful and safe place to live in. Of course, for the solution of this problem, we are not going to come up with the answer in a day or in a few years; it will take several generations, but like many other things if we want to make a change, we must start at some point, and the best time for it is now. One of the steps that we could take in favour of ending unnecessary violence would be to ban all kinds of weapons, because they only cause trouble and hardship, lead to wars, uncontrolled violence. It will not be an easy task because there are many economic interests involved, as well as the fact that for some communities and ethnic groups, guns & weapons form part of their culture and this is not going to be easy to modify in a long time.        
