Nowadays, security forces are easily found in our streets. This fact should make the citizens feel protected and safe, but in times, I confess, I feel insecure about them. This   insecurity police inspires me,  is due to the fact that although I am concious that they look after the citizens, I don't know who looks after them and who limits their power of the cops? I wonder if we must trust completely in the authority,  because the agents would have to punish themselves, and they take advantage of their position  not only abusing people, but also using their status to do certain things.  I have done some research to find cases in which police's abuse has been discovered.  My purpose is to defend my position on limiting their power, investigate them, and check if they are sane people, because it is true that in times they  abuse people with no   need. Of course I know there are times in which it is necessary to use violent methods  to arrest some criminals and I agree with that. But the idea I want to develop through   the essay, deals more with the fact that we should feel protected by the police and not  vulnerable. I'm going to go by by real experiences of people from the US, that I have   read in the internet and I'm also going to narrate real experiences that I have lived,  dealing with the use of the cops authority for their personal benefit.   I believe that protection for the citizens is essential in the society.   Since civilization began, the creation of a system that protects human beings has been a   very dificult task,  it's really important to establish the limits of their power.  I'm going to  write about  some cases in which police has used their power in a wrong   way, and why I think police officers have to be observed  and controlled.     Many times cops profit from their authority . I have seen with my own eyes police   agents showing their identification just to access to some private places such as clubs,   despite they're full and any other can't get in, and for free. I have also seen this in   public places but I really don't know to what extent they are allowed to do this, like in  public transports, with no need because they have not been destinated to that concrete place to work, and they go just because they want to.  I think it's unfair. My perception is that some cops behave as if they were superior, and   this fact goes against the precept of equality. Maybe they take advantage of their   position because they are not limited or because they haven't been taught that their job   is a service for the citizens, and not an instrument to get privileges upon them.  Talking about not very severe abuses, I must also mention that many times working as   police agents, they don't respect traffic signals and use the hooter to avoid traffic jams.  I think that what they really should do is setting example of good behaviour on the   roads and don't violate the rules. All these things I have mentioned, are   not permitted to the rest of the population. There is a lack of moral, in my view, which   manifests in these small offences, and it's very negative for the police's image, and it   is ironical that persons are arrested and  fined by other persons who commit the same  "crimes".    I've found a web called www.policeabuse.org in which people explain cases about   abuses, and there are also people who record some cops acts. In the web some of the   videos can be watched. There's one in which it's seen an agent threatening a man with a   gun during a traffic stop. The only crime the man had commited,  had been being in possession of a vehicle registration that had already expired (a month ago).  In my view, it's a very severe act to pull a pistol on someone whatever the case is, because of the consequences of this act: a person completely frightened who is not going to forget the fear that act caused him, and it could even ocurr an accident with the   gun.       The problem gets more serious when I read that the Nassau County Police Department  in Long Island (NY) has among its workers racist people. There are people who argue   that there are many black criminals, and defend police watch these people more than   any others because black are in general problematic. This is very severe, and I think  it's a pity, but nowadays there is still much racism in the society. My opinion is that   people musn't generalize, not all black people are bad, the same way that not all white people are good.   I'm going to base on experiences told by people who received mistreatments    for being black. To be more concrete, I'm going to write about a case ocurred in Long Island that has been written in a blog by a teacher of a black man who was hancuffed by an agent despite every paper of him and his car was in order. This teacher writes, and I   quote literally, that his student volunteer was handcuffed because <Q>  .This is completely discriminatory.     I have been reading, on <R> , very serious abuses narrated by the  people who suffered these abuses, and the commentaries of the web visitors, some people defend that cops use strength to arrest, but I think that it's not justified that  police use vexatories methods to investigate people. Of course there are cases in which violence can't be avoided, for example, when criminals use guns or assault the agents in   any way. But whenever a cop use violent methods indiscriminately, in my view, is not   justified at all. In <R>  I have read a blog titled "can the police strip   search citizens during traffic stops?" and then there is a case in which two women   (mother and daughter) from Florida, were strip-searched during a traffic stop. Later on   they were compesated with $2 million. Nothing happened to the police officers. They   wanted to prevent the family from suing the police threatening them, by saying they   were going to prosecute the husband/father of these two women accusing him of a crime   that he hadn't commited. He was also strip-searched during that traffic stop with his   wife and daughter, and despite they didn't find any drugs in this man's possession, they   said they would plead he had cocaine. The officers tried to bribe him, by telling him that   if he didn't sue them, they would retire the criminal charges against him. This man,   called Fred Mcleod, din't want to, and then he was told he would face twenty years in the State Pen if he lost in the criminal case. I believe this is intolerable, and this is just one case, but disgracelly, there are thousands of them. And knowing that they threaten   people with so serious things, it's probable that there are cases that haven't seen the   light, in which victims have accepted keeping their freedom and losing their dignity and   their faith in justice. The problem is that police officers cover these abuses, defending     their colleagues and if a citizen wants to sue a situation like this , he or she has to go to   the police, but what can they do if they have to sue the own officers? They're   completely forlorn.       To conclude, I am going to describe some solutions to solve these problems. I have been   thinking of mixture as a possible solution against the racism of cops. I mean, black and   white agents working together in police stations in which cases like this are discovered,   but this is not enough, due to the fact that although the case I have told deals with the   abuse over a black, discrimination happens to other races' people, and not only from   white to black, also black can discriminate others, and there are also different treatments   to women, or other races'or religions' individuals. So once again, government should  test the cops' integrity and impartiallity periodically.  Another solution could be, spying the officers by infiltrating people sent from the goverment in the police stations. Government shouldn't wait for these cases to happen, but avoid them. I think another possible solution could be doing periodical   investigations in police stations, checking  evidences of these cases in which police  abuse is sued. Luckily, police help citizens in many cases, but anyway I keep on being   afraid of being abused.  To conclude, I find interesting to mention the insoluble problem from Cato the Elder   (2nd century BC) : he asked in the Senate of the Ancient Rome to those who wanted to organize a kind of police: <Q>                                                    
