
        


Pornography is as old as civilization is. This term comes from the Greek word which meaning is "writing about prostitutes". There is also the term erotica which although being a similar word it is quite different from pornography. However these two terms are usually used interchangeably, but it is fair to make a distinction between the two of them. On the one hand erotica refers to sexually arousing material with an artistic goal, while on the other hand pornography has little or no artistic value. Nevertheless the line between erotica and the more pejorative word pornography is normally quite subjective. Some people find pornography (films, drawings, magazines...) art and erotica no, and some people just find porn obscene and humiliating for women. This is because women are presented as sexual objects that enjoy being treated like whores. In any scene of a porn movie we can see how women are degradated in several ways, it seems that they like being raped, being spanked or some humiliating thing like this. Another fact is that in "normal" heterosexual porn movies, we have lesbians scenes but never gay scenes. This can be interpreted that pornography is clearly made for men, that they are the only consumers and as a result of this the only defenders of it, and that women are the detractors of pornography. However this is a wrong idea: <Q> <R> . This essay will deal with several opinions about the morality of pornography.
Why pornography is so popular and so consumed nowadays? One argument is that with porn a lot of people have a nice time while they are watching a movie, or reading a magazine. It also has the incentive of sexual fantasies that many men or women have. When they consume porn they would like to be the actor or the actress, or to make with their partners what they watch on this kind of movies. It can be argued that people with a non satisfactory sexual life find in pornography a way to feel themselves satisfied. It is apparently true that, not all, but most of the people that consume porno are single or they have a bad quality sexual life. In this case we can say that pornography is helping someone to feel better, to make them happier.  It can be said that what porn does is to give to their consumers the possibility of making their sexual desires becomes true, as Glenda Jackson said <Q> .  By this opinion it can be interpreted that pornography not only has benefits in a personal  level but also in a social way. These can be some of the main arguments in favour to pornography, but they can also be possible arguments for their detractors as we will look at this point later on. Another important fact is that it is reasonable to argue that many couples think that their sexual life is boring and monotonous, which is one of the biggest problems between couples, and they find in pornography new sexual fantasies, new ideas to improve their sexual relations. This argument can be compared to "Kamasutra"; this book has been used for many years by people to improve their sexual life. It can be said that for this reason is why pornoghraphy is necessary as Glenda Jackson said. This defender of pornography also declares that this product does not could be the cause of rapes or other immoral consequences, she thinks that " the only thing pornography is known to cause is the solitary act of masturbation". Some people would say that this consequence is not immoral at all, they would say that masturbation is something natural and even necessary to know our body better, and that if we can to please ourselves we will be able to please our lovers better and improve our sexual behaviour.
It is widely agreed that are more arguments defending that pornography is immoral. One of the main argument to defend this idea is the way that women are presented, and what women have to do in porn movies. When we talk about porn we talk about many different kind of porn; we have, as I said before, a normal heterosexual porn movies, but we also have movies in which girls are having sex with animals, movies in which women are urinated by men in their mouth. In these scenes of this kind of films, we can see how women seem to really enjoy what they are doing, and for instance, a man who watches a scene of this kind maybe thinks that some women likes to be urinated and they get excited by watching this, so they try to do this with a woman. 

Some people  would argue that this can be the cause of many rapes or sexual abuses. On the contrary of what Glenda Jackson said we have Robin Morgan's opinion who declared : 
<Q>  . It seems that, coming back to "normal" porn, one of the immoral arguments of the people against porn is ( apart from women humiliation ) masturbation. It is widely know that Catholic Church is against masturbation and of course against pornography, but not only religion thinks that the immoral act of masturbation is linked to pornography. It is widely accepted that porn and masturbation creates addiction, and consumers of porn want to see new films with some original scenes, they look for weird and bizarre sex scenes to satisfied their sexual appetite. This is a very strong argument for porn attackers because it represents the degradation of a person being a slave of his or her sexual fantasies and their need of masturbation. Furthermore, we also have child pornography, which is the most criticized kind of pornography. A strong argument supporting the idea of child porn immorality is that in this movies or magazines we can see adult people having sex with kids under eighteen years old, sometimes with babies. These movies, apart from being illegal, are completely breaking the idea of what  moral or ethics is. Here we can not talk about freedom of speech, here we have to talk about crossing the thin line between freedom of speech and crime. Plus, it is possible to argue that one of the immoral consequences that porn on their consumers (mostly men) is that, when they have a sexual relation with a women they try to force them to make what actresses do in porn movies, they can not  distinguish between what reality and fiction is. However, it seems that thinking that pornography is the main cause of women's rape is an argument quite debatable.

Although we have arguments and opinions for and against pornography, we also find some mid-

point about it. It seems that there are many people that do not defend one opinion or another, they just know that pornography exists but they do not care about it. Some people would argue that everyone is free to decide what they like or not, whatever kind of porn category is their sexual arousals. In addition it could be said that some people think that it is something normal that porn consumers prefer masturbation instead of having sex with another human being, or that use masturbation to give themselves pleasure and to use it as a complement to sex. It is apparently true that for these people who are in the middle of for and against opinions about porn, the only kind of movies that they really disapprove is child porn. It seems that they dislike and reject it because, apart from being illegal, is immoral and attempts against children rights. Adult people is free to do what they want with their bodies, if they decide to make a movie having sex with animals is their adult decision, but children are forced to do this in these kind of movies. It can be said that the main argument for a person with a mid-point opinion is that everyone is free to watch, or to make pornographic movies whenever they are not illegal or not attempting against human rights. 

To conclude it has to be said that it appears that pornography will always be a polemic and 

controversial issue. As we have seen in this essay, on the one hand we can find people that strongly believe that pornography is necessary, while on the other hand we have people that defends that pornography is completely immoral and it would have to disappear. Between these two extremes opinions we can talk about mid-points opinions that, in a way, what they are talking about is that nothing in life is that things are black or white.
