There is only one thing in life that we can be sure of it, we all are going to die. Death has always been the big mistery for humans throughout history, I would say that what is after death is the big question that we all make to ourselves. Some people think that life does not end with death, that there is something else, that there must be something else. Religion, as Catholic Church, has always defended the idea that death is the pass from earthly life to eternal life, the only thing you have to have is faith. But it could be that people want to believe this just because they are afraid of dying. This issue and others will be treated in throughout this essay, in which I will discuss the idea of death as the end of life, and I will try to defend my opinion: there is nothing after death.    Death can be interpreted as the end of life of any living being. However, there are many people who do not think like this. It is apparently true that humans are afraid of death, that no one wants to die. On the contrary, there is people that they just admit that someday they are going to die and they do not are scared for this feeling, knowing that someday they will be gone. As I said before, religions defend the idea that there is something else after death, and of course, all the members of each religious order believe this. One of the possible main arguments for this is that humans, contrary to animals, have soul, have some feelings that animals can not have. For this reason there are a lot of defenders of the idea of a new life after death. Their explanation for this theory is that we are not only flesh, bones, blood... but soul, and for this difference between animals and humans there is something else waiting for our soul when we die, something good or bad, but another kind of life not like the earthly life. <Q> <R> . In my opinion, If someone believes this is not only because his strong faith in some religion, I think that maybe is just because they are afraid of dying and by believing this, they can think of death as something that is not so bad.   A strongly belief that is present nowadays is Reincarnation. This word   means literally <Q> <R> . The idea of   reincarnation is to survive death, the idea that when you die you reborn in a   new body, that your soul begins a new life but you can not remember about your old life. It is important to distinguish between what reincarnation and resurrection is. As I said before, reincarnation is to begin a new life but with the same soul in another body, however Resurrection is the raise of the same body after dying. One of the beliefs about reincarnation is that     <Q> <R> . One of the arguments that can be used to defend this idea is the term " déjà vu ". Déjà vu is a word that refers to a feeling that make us think that we have just lived something that we have already lived. Some defenders of reincarnation say that we feel this because is something that we lived in some of our other life. I think that this feeling is just because maybe we have been in a similar situation before, or we have seen a similar situation before in a movie, or with our friends. One important thing to think about it is: do we have soul ? It is a hard question to answer, because soul is something that we can not see, we can not feel, is again a matter of believing in it or not. As we can see, in the issue of life after death faith is a very important word. What we can say about faith is the will to believe something without needing facts to believe in what we are told. A lot of people think that we have soul because we can feel love, hate, sense of guilty or whatever. In my opinion we can feel this not because of a soul, but because we are rational animals, and this fact is the one that distinguish humans from animals, not having soul or not. The fact is that we are conscious of our existence, of our death, and this make ourselves to ask, to be worry about death, to make us desire what is waiting for us at the end of our life. In order to understand death we have to understand first what is life, where do we come from? We do not know what is before life, so we do not know what is after it. Some experts say that <Q> <R> . From this philosophical point of view we can argue that when we die we come back to where we were before born, but we are at the same point, what or where is this place? It can be a place in which our souls rest waiting for a new body, for reborn and begin a new life. In my opinion this is a very fantastic idea of what life and death is, is a way to convince ourselves that we are, in a way, immortal.   Skeptic people would argue that there is nothing after we die because science can not prove it. This people need facts, need to see to believe, on the contrary to religious people. Science has a lot of questions without answers, such as: <Q> <R> . Maybe this questions will never be answered, as questions  like what is after death, if there is something. However, people that have suffered a near death experience tell that they have seen themselves out their bodies, resting in his bed or in a hospital bed. Another experience is the one of the tunnel, the darkness and the light at the end of the tunnel. The case of the tunnel can have an explanation, at least the darkness issue: <Q> . However, the fact of "seeing" a light can not be explained so easy: <Q> . In my opinion, this is a very useful interpretation of what a dying man feels just before he pass through, experiencing in a way a regression of the day he was born, the only problem is that we can not remember our day of birth, so when we die, or when we have a near death experience, we think that the light at the end of the tunnel is the pass to a new life.      To conclude I would like to say that, as we have seen, the issue of life and death is not as simple as we can think. It is not a matter of born, live our lifes and die. It can be something else, or some other place before we born, or after we die. This places can be the same places, or just different places, but we can think of this in a philosophical way, or even too in a religious way, but from the point of view of science life and death is a very complex thing, and it needs proves to explain what is beyond life and death. In my opinion we are in earth living our lifes as any other living being, and some day we will die and leave this world to our children, to our families, lovers... and we will be immortals only for a few years, only for our dear ones just the time before they forget us. 
