

     The word drug embraces a lot of different substances, some of them legal and some of them illegal. Medicines, tobacco or alcohol are some of the legal drugs that we normally consume, drugs that are accepted in our present society. On the other hand we have illegal drugs, and we can make two main groups of illegal drugs: soft drugs and hard drugs. Despite that studies have shown that a soft drug like cannabis is less dangerous than tobacco or alcohol, cannabis is still an illegal substance just like heroin or any hard drug. In this essay I will focus on illegal hard drugs such as heroin, cocaine, ecstasy... and I will try to explain why these substances should be legal according to my opinion.


     It is well known that drugs, illegal or not, are bad for our health, but we still consume some substances that are addictive such as caffeine, tobacco, alcohol. These drugs are not less addictive or less dangerous just because they are legal, <Q> <R>   So, for instance  we can buy cigarrettes in any pub but we can not buy MDMA ( ecstasy, a substance that is less addictive than tobacco ) , in a chemist. An easy answer for this point could be that MDMA is worse for our health than tobacco, but <Q>  This number of deaths is bigger than the number of people who die from hard drugs. Plus, we have to realize that illegal drugs are not under a quality control like legal drugs, so making these substances legals would drop the number of deaths of drug users. This would be a big health benefit because drugstores or wherever drugs would be sold, they will sell a safe product, not an adulterated drug that can cause more accidental deaths of the drug addicts, more users can be 



intoxicated with another substances. Another benefit would be that some illegal substances could be used to make peolpe with a terminal illness to make them suffer less and to intoxicate them less with an illegal soft drug than with a legal hard drug. If we really care about health, it would be better to make them legal.


     An important point about making drugs legal is that crime would decrease. Black market of drugs is controlled by drugs gangs, mafias,... They are the ones that sell and transport the substances, the ones that make illegal drugs a part of our society, and if illegal substances were legal there would be no crime because of the drug trafficking. An interes fact is to think about <Q> <R> . In 1920's, when alcohol was illegal, in the US was happening just the same that happens nowadays with illegal substances: the alcohol that was sold in the streets was a bad quality alcohol, the prices were quite high so people had to steal if they wanted to drink. Here we have an importamt advantage if drugs were legal, having a legal cheaper drug there would be less thefts and more security in our cities, and nowadays this is one of the big problems in our society. However, maybe these gangs would not disappear, and maybe this hypothethical legalization would bring bad consequences. One of the bad consequences could be that mafias and gangs would become very angry because of they would have lost lots of money, and they would probably react in a violent way, maybe in a terrorist way. The other possibility, and in my opinion the most probably 




one, is that new substances, new illegal drugs would be again in their hands, maybe substances more dangerous than the hard drugs already known. But this is something that, making drugs legal or not, will happen if we want or not, everything changes, even drugs are changing, this is something that we can not avoid, there will be always new substances to make us feel something that we can not feel without them, to cure people from new ilnesses. Drugs have always been a part of civilization throughout history.



     A lot of people think that by making drugs legal we will all become addicts because of the cheap price, or because of the ease to buy them in any chemist, drugstore or whatever. This thought is deep-rooted in our society, but for me is totally wrong for two main reasons. First, we all have an easy access to drugs, legal or illegal. When we are ill we take drugs such as pain killers, tranquillizing drugs... There is a lot of legal substances in our normal life, and a lot of doctors prescribe them as if these medicines were sweets, substances that are even more addictive and dangerous for us than some of the "medicines" that we can buy in the street. And second, we also have an easy acces to illegal drugs and any adult person is free to decide what to do with his own life. In my opinion, if you take drugs now and then for whatever reason or purpose there is nothing wrong in doing it, I think that the problem is not the substance but the user. A person with an addictive personality is not the most indicated person to take drugs, however if he decides to take them is his decision. Maybe people think that is impossible to take drugs now and then and not become an addict. I think they are 




wrong, when you take drugs you have to know that what you are experiencing by taking a particular substance has a temporary effect in your body, that after taking a drug you will become to your real life. The problem is when drug is taken to solve your problems, to escape from reality , when you take a substance because you are not happy, and this is a very big problem. People would have to take drugs because they are happy, not because their life is horrible.


 
     To conclude,I have tried to show that making drugs legal would bring more benefits than problems, not only for society but for users too. On the one hand because crime would decrease, and on the other because drug quality would be controlled and then the adulterated drugs would disappear. With this essay I have not tried to make people become drug addicts, but to make them think, to make them realize that it would be better for all if these illegal substances were legal, that we can not make drugs disappear, and it is better to learn to coexist with them, and even to take benefits from them by learning how to take them, than just say that illegal drugs are bad. We would have to try to remove the stigma that the word drug has, try to normalize the fact that some people take drugs and not to see this fact as something evil. Most of the peolpe thinks that drugs are evil just because they are illegal, they never will think this of legal drugs, they maybe think about tobacco and they say that is bad for our health but not evil or destructive, so this is something that has to change in people's mind before making illegal hard drugs legal.

