
      During the last years, we have seen how the topic of homosexuality have been 
increasing more and more. This is because day by day, it is becoming more and more 
common to see everywhere gay people - on TV, on the streets, on movies, ...- . This 
means that now homosexuality is not a taboo, gay couples do not have to keep their 
silence about their sexual orientation because society is becoming more tolerant and 
used to it. Although we are living on the 21st century, gays and lesbians are still 
suffering many kinds of discrimination such as on employment, public 
accommodations, parenting or marriage between individuals of the same sex. In this 
essay I will try to show a variety of different points of view regarding gay and lesbian 
rights in society.


      First of all, we will talk about how gay people suffer from discrimination on 
employment. The issues that involve this kind of discrimination are, for example, denial 
of promotions, unfair dismissal, harassment, breaches of confidentiality or refusal of 
overtime and higher duties. Back in 2002, a research into gay and lesbians in the 
workplace showed that 1 out of 5 homosexuals experienced discrimination in their jobs. 
Most people believe this should not be possible, as Mr Von Doussa said <Q> . 
One of the possible arguments according to Doussa's opinion is that gay people are also 
human beings, they are normal people that have a different view about sex and live their 
sexuality in a different manner. However, it seems that, apart from their sexual 
condition, they are as equals as straight people are, mentally and physically. This 
argument is considered logical because heterosexuals, as human beings, have to have 
the same rights as heterosexuals; separating their sexual orientation, they are equal 
individuals.


      Other people consider homosexuality as a type of disease so, from their point of 
view, gay people should not live a normal life because they are not normal. These 
people feel that homosexuals suffer from a mental illness, that they are mentally sick 
and that is why they believe that gays should not be working because they are not sane. 
Even, these people believe that homosexuality is a disease that can be transmitted and 
they could fall sick too. This belief does not make any sense, probably these persons 
have an old view of gays -some years ago, society though in this way- and they are not 
well informed about the issue and about gays as common people that has taken a 
different option for living.


      Secondly, another problem that gay people have is parenting. Although gay and 
lesbians are fighting in order to get this right and, governments are studying the 
proposal for allowing them adoption, there are many policies and laws that ban them 
from adopting, as well as family courts that penalize homosexual parents in child's 
custody and visitation arrangements. People who are in favour of gay and lesbian 
parents talk about diversity of families and equality for everyone as human beings.       

      These arguments, mentioned before, seem rather convincing because with 
diversity of families, kids learn that there are many kinds of families and that they have 
to respect everybody with his or her way of living. Also, equality for everybody seems 
to be reasonable because they defend gays as humans -gays should share the same 
rights as straight people- and everyone has to get the right of adopting. Other people 
defend that children have to grow up with the figure of a father and of a mother because 
each one complements their education. But, it could be argued that if they are good 
parents and are mentally healthy, they can give children an education as good as 
heterosexual parents, or even better.


      The next problem we will develop will be marriage and relationships between 
gays. Though in Spain homosexual marriage has been legalized, there are many 
countries where it is still illegal. This is very important for same-sex couples because 
there are lots of benefits that they can get from a legally recognized relationship: health 
insurance, unemployment compensation, inheritance or immigration status, among 
others. Many people feel seriously against this kind of union. They point out that this 
goes against procreation -the couple cannot create a new life- and, talking in terms of 
nature, physically, they are not as complementary as a straight couple could be. This 
argument is not very logical; these people consider homosexuality like something that 
goes straight nature, they look at gays as anomalous beings.  

      This argument about going against nature, is not very logical because marriage is 
a civil union that give the couple benefits and responsibilities with his or her partner 
from a legal perspective. They harm nobody with their relationship, there are many 
heterosexual couples that cannot have or do not want to have children and this is not a 
problem for society. Maybe, the gay couple do not complement themselves physically 
but, this is also something that only concerns them. Most people feel in this way 
because they see homosexuality as a virus.


      Nevertheless, others believe that it is not a disease but they still thinking that 
they should not get married. This people consider that marriage is a family institution 
formed by a man and a woman with the obligation of having children and getting sure 
the continuity of humanity in the future. On the one hand, this way of thinking is well-

structured in the sense that, if marriage only represents procreation gay people cannot 
have kids because it is physically impossible. But, on the other hand, marriage is 
something more than procreation. As we have seen before, this union involves more 
things from a legal point of view. 

      Also, other people think that marriage between same-sex couples should be 
legalized everywhere around the world because they must have the same rights as 
heterosexual couples, and getting married, they harm nobody. With marriage, they will 
have the same rights as a couple and, also, they will feel better doing what they want 
with total freedom. This argument seems coherent because the main right of human 
being is freedom, so marring they show their freedom as individuals. 

      Some years ago, society was completely different. For example, Spain was 
living a dictatorship and gays not only were bad seen but also, they could be imprisoned 
or condemned of death if their sexual orientation was discovered. That is why there is 
still a lot of people that see homosexuality eve worse than a crime and feel against 
everything that can suppose an advance for gay people. This argument is considered 
valid, in the way that all this people had to be against homosexuality or they could end 
in prison or dead. Nevertheless, nowadays we live in a democracy and this means 
freedom in all the possible senses. 

      Also, this people feel in this way due to AIDS apparition in the 80's. During that 
time, AIDS was only considered an illness suffered by homosexual people because they 
were the 1st ones who got infected with this mortal virus. Maybe, it could be argued 
that, in that period, people were more narrow-minded than now. But also, the disease 
had something to do because it only appeared between gays due to their sexual 
relations. However, now AIDS is a very serious illness that affects millions of people in 
the world whether they are gays or not. So, they can be endorsed in that opinion for 
going against this sexual orientation because the virus can affect everyone. 

      Finally, we will see a variety of points of view that, in some ways, support 
homosexuality but, in other ways, they do not do so. Many people is in favour of 
marriage between same-sex couples because this fact does not affect anybody except the 
couple. Nevertheless, they think that gays should not adopt. As we have seen before, 
they have the idea that kids should grow up in an environment where they will receive a 
good education with a father and a mother rather with 2 fathers or 2 mothers. To this it 
could be pointed out that this people believe children with parents of the same sex will 
suffer a lack of a masculine or feminine vision -depending on the sex of their foster 
parents- that they need. But, the same occurs with single parents, and their kids grow up 
in the same way as those children that belong to a conventional family.  

      To sum up, we have seen a variety of different points of view regarding 
homosexual problems in order to get the same rights as straight people have. We have 
talked about problems like discrimination on the workplace, parenting and marriage 
between same-sex couples. Taking into account these problems, we have seen different 
visions that support partially, totally or, simply, do not do it, the gays' right of equality 
in all the possible aspects of the issue. Homosexuality is not a virus that must be erased, 
it is an option like any other one and it has to be respected; as human beings, gays and 
lesbians should have the same rights and opportunities as heterosexual people have, 
without exceptions. 
 
