  Nowadays in our present society, offences committed by children are increasing in a very dangerous way. When we talk about offences, we are referring to crimes like rapes, thefts with violence, bullying or, what is the same, school harassment and offences against government properties. Statistics show that during the last five years, crimes have trebled, especially in the big cities where offences grow and people under arrest's age decreases. Furthermore, recent studies indicate that 80% of thefts and homicides that are cleared up are committed by children from 12 to 16 years. In this essay, I will try to show how crimes could be prevented and some possible solutions for this serious problem which is increasing more and more. 

  There are a lot of causes that can provoke these kinds of behaviours but, from my own point of view, these cannot be considered excuses for committing offences. First of all, I believe that television contributes to this, in part, because, at the present time, audience is more controlled than programme planning. Nowadays, people prefer to watch violent and morbid things on TV because they watch it with pleasure. I think that this habit reflects, in a way, a primary instinct, a primary wish that is repressed by the individual. And, I believe that watch it on TV make this wish closer, even though it probably will never become real in their normal lifes. In my view, TV channels must take more care about programme planning for making people get more sensitive and sensible for distinguishing reality from fiction. Maybe, adults can make this distinction but the problem is that kids don't, they imitate everything they watch on TV.

Secondly, I consider that videogames are another cause of these behaviours. There are many types of videogames: about sports, adventures, educatives, ... But those which are the most sold are fighting and violent games that contain explicit scenes of violence and blood. From my view, companies should persistently notice parents about what short of entertainment have their children and must strongly advertise that these games are considered for people over 18 years old. Even shops where these articles are sold must insist on these advices. It is true that many parents wouldn't give importance to these warnings and, in addition to this, many teenagers can buy it with their own money and without their parents' consent. But this, in my opinion, is not possible to control. Even so, most parents will think twice before make this kind of shopping and, possibly, this type of games will have fewer sales between children under 18.

Also, education is another cause that I feel is very important. Both, schools and parents are responsible of kids in this aspect. Lack of education at home or of attention from parents to children are used to be important facts which can end in these kinds of behaviours. At home, the most important thing is to educate children with moral values, make them sensitive towards everything that surround them, with rules for knowing how to behave properly in society and between other human beings and what is very important: to put some limits. All of these, must be done at schools too. Teachers commitment is not only make children learn how to read or maths, they must educate kids with values too. Teaching their students how to live between equals, respect their partners and the authority, etc. 

From my point of view, society and, over all, schools have to make parents aware to stop these actions, a measure for this could be what many schools are doing at this moment: they are giving "lessons" to those parents who want to improve their kids' education or have some doubts about this issue. Of course, some parents believe that the way they are educating their children is correct and don't accept any advice but I think that others will be grateful with this support from schools where they can get some help with their problems of parenthood. 

Next, I feel that a very serious cause could be kids' problems during their babyhood and the first years of childhood (or, even during their infancy). These problems can be, for example, ill-treatment of any type - physical or psychological- or being a victim of an abandonment. As it is known, any of these difficulties can provoke an emotional frustration. So, I believe that some offences committed by these children can be a way of relieving this frustration by these acts. From my view, to prevent this, all of these kids must get a therapy with a specialist for forgetting all that bad experiences that they had in the past. But, I think it isn't as easy as it seems because many kids cannot have these therapies due to their own silence or their families' silence. Nevertheless, in my view, the only thing that can be done is to give all the help and support needed to those children that don't keep their silence and want to have a normal life.

Even though, I have given some preventions or solutions to those causes, I must mention some general solutions to the problem. As I see it, government have to put more resources for building more centres for helping these problematic children with therapies, activities for improving their coexistence with other kids, moral values or teach them how to respect people. From an economic perspective, on one hand, these centres can be very expensive but, on the other hand, these centres need many workers for taking care of the kids, holding up the building, etc. and this will help the government and the whole country in an economic way, and, of course, the children. 

In my view, another solution is hard punishment, this means, not a physical punishment but one that could make kids think about their acts. For example, at schools I believe that a good punishment is to be expelled from there for some days or, even, for the rest of the whole school year. Maybe this measure is not as effective as it should be because I think that if parents don't take care of their children's education and about the expulsion, this punishment is not going to be useful, I mean, kids will some days or the whole year like being at holidays. But, I feel that if they are responsible parents they will take particular measures for getting sure that the problem will not be repeated again.

I believe that other solutions for stopping those offences committed out of school or of home can be social works for the community, such as cleaning the streets, parks or helping old people for a year or more, though I think it depends on the gravity of the crime and the child's age. Furthermore, in my opinion, it is also possible to put expensive fines that should be paid by them with their own work and not by their parents but this punishment also depends on the kid's age. In my view, these solutions can have weak points like, for example, if kids are very young they are not able to do social works or pay expensive fines by their own. Instead of this, I think other measures must be taken into account. On the contrary, we could argue that those children who are older can fulfil these punishments and this will make them think about their crimes.  

To sum up, although we have seen from my own point of view that TV, videogames, education and problems during childhood are some causes of this issue but not the only ones. We also have seen some possible ways of preventing these behaviours taking into account the causes that I have pointed out and finally, some possible general solutions too to these crimes occasioned by kids that are increasing nowadays in our society. It is important to pay special attention to this problem because it is becoming more and more common; maybe these solutions I have given are not definitives but it can help to end with this issue.  
