Day by day, our society is becoming more and more used to a social   phenomenon that is dangerously increasing between young people. This is a very big   and serious problem: the drinking culture of teenagers. With drinking culture we   understand the notable customs shared by groups of people around the world involved   in drinking alcoholic beverages. Normally, adolescents drink spirits in friends' gatherings. This is very common to do in order to get drunk because they believe that they will feel better with some alcohol in their bodies. In this essay, I will try to show  different points of view about the problems caused by the drinking culture of young people and I will give my own opinion according to this issue and also will try to provide some possible solutions to this problem.    First of all, we will see the point of view of those who are against the drinking   culture of young people. The majority of these people are adults who believe that   teenagers are the most vulnerable to suffer psychological, physical and/or social harm   due to their habits with alcohol or due to the customs of others that surround them.  They also argue that adolescents are more likely to commit or be victims of a violent   crime when they are drunk. They tend to agree to things that are not generally accepted   by them, such as a high-risk drinking or an unsafe sexual behaviour which puts their   health and safety in danger.      Personally speaking, I agree with this point of view. I believe that if we think   about all the bad consequences alcohol can cause, it seems logical to be against spirits   and its consumption. However, I feel that these people should be also opposite to the   drinking culture in general. On the one hand, I think that it is true to say that young   people are the most vulnerable to the risks of alcoholic beverages but, on the other hand,   I consider they are not the only ones. With this I mean that adults can also suffer from   any of these damages and can commit the same or worse mistakes than children can do.   For avoiding this, I believe that society has to get more involved in this issue. As I see   it, with impartial information and education, from an early age, of the effects of alcohol   consumption on health, on the family and on the society we could reduce a lot the   number of people affected by these bad consequences.    Secondly, we should talk about those who are in favour of the drinking culture   of young people. Generally, those who share this view are teenagers. They argue that   for them drinking alcohol is part of their lifestyle, particularly on weekends and   parties. Adolescents drink in groups, it is not very common to see a boy or a girl   drinking alone, they see it as a rest from their common life, like something out of   normality. In a way, their problems behind and can also be free from inhibitions with   the help of alcoholic beverages.   From my point of view, as a young adult I have to say that this opinion makes   sense in some points. I believe that although alcohol can help for leaving every worry   behind and you can act in a freely way, this only happens for a short period of time. I feel that, at the first, spirits provokes states of false happiness and euphoria but when these effects disappear other turn up: depression. As it is well-known, spirits are  depressives and with them, anything that goes up should go down. So, I consider that if  youth uses it in order to avoid reality, later they will feel worse than before because the   effects of alcohol distort their perception about their problems. On the contrary, some researches show that in those societies in which people do not believe that alcohol   produces disinhibition, it does not have this effect. Nevertheless, I have to say that in   our society it is believed that it really has this effect and that is why teenagers use it in  order to leave their shyness behind.   In the third place, we will see a mid-point of view concerning the topic we are   discussing. Some people believe that young people from 18 and up can live the drinking   culture of teenagers if they are responsible drinkers. This means that they drink being   conscious about what are they consuming and doing it in a capable way not as many   adolescents who drink too thoughtlessly and too carelessly, knowing where is their safe   limit, and drinking without external tensions, it is known that many youngs feel a great   pressure regarding to their consumer choice in order to become popular. These people   argue that if an 18-year-old is responsible and old enough for marrying, having a baby,   working in an important job or dying for his or her country why they are not going to be   allowed to buy and drink alcohol.    I believe that this point of view is the one that is more in agreement to my   personal opinion about this topic. As I see it, it is very sad to see young boys and girls   drunk in the streets or even ill due to their abuse of alcohol. They really neither are   conscious about the consequences of spirits' consumption and nor are capable enough   of having a responsible consume. Personally speaking, I feel that they only drink till   they get drunk, this is called binge drinking, in this way they lose their consciousness   and do not remember what happened the night before. It could be argue that usually 18-  year-olds are not responsible enough of their acts, nowadays they do not get very   involved in things that can suppose many responsibilities. I consider that adolescents of   today have to grow up mentally a bit more in order to be considered capable adults. But,   on the contrary, I could say that there are many 30-year-old adults that have an   irresponsible behaviour and act as teenagers feeling as if they had no responsibilities.   From my point of view, responsibility is not tied to age.      	Now that we have seen several points of view regarding this issue, I will try to   give some possible solutions to some of the problems caused by the drinking culture of   teenagers. I feel that I should point out that governments must give more protection in   order to avoid children's exposure to alcohol, directly or in an indirect way. First, I   believe the measures to protect young people from exposing them to alcohol promotion   and sponsorships should be strengthened. In other countries, like France, spirits   advertisements are banned everywhere, it is not possible to watch any of these ads on   TV or on magazines. I consider that this could be a good measure in order to reduce the   number of drinkers in the future. As other measure, I feel there also should be a hard   control about the selling of alcohol to adolescents, using security cameras and asking   for any kind of identification to know exactly the customer's age. Although nowadays   these methods are normally being used in some shops where owners are conscious   about the economic consequences of selling alcohol to teenagers, there are many places   where they are not used to it and this should be obligatory in every shop.   	  
From my point of view, another thing that should be done is to promote   education, in particular among young people. I feel that becoming aware of the bad   effects of alcohol, children will develop an important consciousness about drinking in   moderation. I also believe that governments should create alternatives to the drink   culture in order to make people know that there are more ways of having a nice time   without spirits. The Spanish government has taken this initiative and has developed a   program for adolescents on weekend nights, with this idea they are trying to promote   how to enjoy at night without any kind of alcohol or drugs and practising cultural and   sports activities. The problem is that this is idea has not been well assisted so, many   teenagers do not know the existence of this program.   
To sum up, I have shown different points of view regarding the problem of the   drinking culture of youth. I also have analysed and given my own opinion according to   these views. Although I am in favour of this drinking culture, I agree in some points   with those who strongly believe that teenagers should not consume spirits. I consider   that many adolescents are not ready enough to try alcohol due to their irresponsibility   and their ignorance about all the bad consequences that it can carry. Finally, I have   given some possible solutions in order to avoid a thoughtless consume of alcoholic   beverages, such as promote education about its effects or create new alternatives on   weekends for making young people know that there are more things that they can do   apart from drinking. I strongly feel that if all those measures are leading to an end,   people will drink in a capable way enjoying their drinks without having any of the   damages mentioned before due to their consume.            
