			A.I.D.S.(Acquired immune deficiency syndrome) is a global problem   which affects 40 million people over the world. The most affected region is   the subsaharian africa where 25 million people are infected with the virus:   H.I.V. (human immunodeficiency virus). The first case of AIDS was   detected in 1981 and since then investagations are going on but no antidote   has been found yet. The VIH kills all the body defences and a simple   cold could be enough to kill a sufferer. The virus can be transmitted by the   blood or having sexual relations without preservative, but the public's   knowledge and perceptions are still full of misconceptions. According to   data from the Kaiser family Fundation surveys, more than one third of the   public(37%)  thinks HIV might be tansmitted by kissing, 22% thinks it   might be transmitted through sharing the same glass and a 16% think it   might be transmitted by touching a toilet seat. The situation is much more   alarming in developing countries where hardly no information is given. In this places we find infected people who don't know of their illness, or simply, have no resources or access to be cured. "This is worrying because as we know increase HIV prevention programmes in this countries have shown progress in the past, for example in Uganda. This means that countries are not moving at the same speed as their epidemics" Said UNAIDS executive director Peter piot. <Q> . This programmes have good results but need to be focused   and sustained and goverments have a big responsability at this point.   Having done this approximation, in this essay I am going to show the   different opinions of governments, AIDS associations and sufferers   towards a world problem: A.I.D.S.  	In the one hand we find a general opinion between governments of   develop countries, which are the only ones who have the required money to   face the whole problem. This is the case of the EEUU, that spended during   the last year more money than the sum of all other country contributions   together. But this money not always reaches it's destination, S.   Vella(specialist in AIDS) says: <Q> . In contrast with this idea the general secretary of the United   Nations, Kofi Annan says that financial resorces are being commited as   never before, people have access to anti-retroviral treatments as never   before, several countries are managging to fight the spread and as the   number of infections continues unabated we need to mobilize political will   as never before. But it's seems that is not only  money but also other issues,   for example dealing with the commercial interests, from the pharmaceutic   industry. Therefore, experts think that this interests are the principle   obstacle for cientific advances and only a 3% of the money is invested in   AIDS. So it seems that governments should take part on the problem not   only helping with money, but also involving themselves in the issue. It is a   delicate issue and even the governments of non-develop countries make it   difficult, perhaps this is better reflected by Didymus Mutasa, the current   minister of state security from Zimbawe: <Q> .  	In the second hand, evidences reveal a general disconfort between   different AIDS associations and experts of several fields related to AIDS.   As researches and evidences show, this people thinks that if governments   wanted they could stop this epedemic, because they have the neccessary   power and the required money. A nurse from Chile asserts: <Q> . Against this we have the   opinion of S. Mallaby, columnist of The washington post: <Q> . From the same article we find  <Q> . Until recently this was true, as the writer Says <Q> . Another issue   apart from the pharmaceutical industry, is having qualificated people that   inform about AIDS: <Q> <R> . It is apparently true that   there is a definite role for abstinence, especially among the children, where   the training has shown in some cases to delay the age of the first sexual   activity. But sometimes this programmes can do little help when facing to   cases of young women under pressure to have sex for economic or cultural   reasons. As we see it is money what is needed and the researches show   this. S.vella says: <Q> . Another alternative promoted   by the US government is the abstinence of sex but this policy has been very   critisized because it dosen`t stop the problem. It is part of the epidemic but   not as significant as facts which reveal that people are dying because   they have no access to treatments. According to the UN's World Health   Organization (WHO), six million people in developing countries need anti-  retroviral (ARV) drugs, but less than 300,000 actually receive it.   	Finally I will focus on the sufferes points of views and testimonies.   But we might firstly point out an evident reality, the example of   Zimbawe policy where AIDS kills 3,500 sufferers a day. Much of the   country is forced to survived with one meal a day and ARVs, even if they   were supplied, cannot be taken in an empty stomatch. There are more   moderate cases like the one of Nisha Crackravaty, an Indian mother   who's live has been transformed by the virus. Her husband died of AIDS   and it was what made her realize that her and her 4 years-old son were   infected. She says: <Q> . We can contrast   this case with a 22 year-old American citizen who lives with his treatment   and thinks positive: <Q> . The experience (in develop countries) of infected people during the   last two decades has shown that HIV is not the "end of the world" and that   there is good quality life for several more years. But as researches show the   85% of the sufferers are from developing countries like the sub-saharian   Africa were around 23million people live with AIDS. Here the facts speak   by themselves and lots of the infected are babies who will probably die in   there first years of life. Other sufferers don't even know of their infection.   A senior doctor who has been working in the health system from Zimbawe   said: <Q> .Experts consider that this is a problem to afront now and not   tomorrow, so that governments must act in consequence. Why the victims   die in some places an in others don't? Doctor s.vella thinks that rich nations   forget in many cases that AIDS is an emergency problem.  	To sum up, we have deal with the opinions from several sources and   what I have found is that there are more about activists or AIDS   associations than of governments. The governments invest in AIDS but   aparently they afterwords forget about the problem. The case of EEUU is   an example: they Contribute with a lot of money but they expend 100times   more money in arms. AIDS associations are doing their job but they   usually need more money: to build hospitals, to formate locals as AIDS   teachers, to have the neccessary amount of medicines or the neccessary   infrastructure to have ill people with their own treatments. The sufferers   always take the worst part and it is the minority who have  a chance to have   a worthy life nowadays. We should not forget that in Africa and other non-  develop countries, the first objective is stopping the starving of millions of   people. Our hope could be brought by THE INTERNATIONAL   COMMUNITY. They know what to do, how to do it, who can do it, where   is the work required and the total costs.  
