
      It is universally known, so as tested, that sexual activity in humans is an instinctive form of physical intimacy and the desire to have sex is one of the basic drives of human behaviour. It may be carried out for the purposes of biological reproduction, spiritual transcendence, expressing affection, and for pleasure and enjoyment. Every sexually reproductive animal species, and every human culture, has different perspectives about the conduct used in courtship, intimacy, and sexual activity. Nowadays, this can be seen as a fact more stressed in the adolescence, which is an especially dangerous time changing from child to adult, when human beings discover many aspects of their physical nature, apart of other several things. In this essay I will discuss the different perspectives of the anthropological or moral (culture, religion ...) view and the practical one (informational) about teenage sexual behaviours.
 	Firstly, some arguments against teenagers having sexual relationships are maintained, mostly by religious people. Morally speaking, the different religions we can observe all over the world have a limited concept of sexual relationships. Usually, they think about sex only with the purpose of biological reproduction, this is to say, with the idea of procreation, for not losing our human race. We can see this, for example in the Christianism and its respective branches (Catholisim, Portestantism, Orthodoxy, ...). They contemplate the idea of sex as a kind of mortal sin if you practise it without being married, if the purposes are not only for the procreation. Saint Thomas Aquinas (an Italian philosopher and theologian in the scholastic tradition considered by many Catholics to be the Church's greatest theologian) in his "Tratado del matrimonio", he establishes the rank of the sins related to sex: <Q> <R> . So, Catholic teenagers would be very far from the concept of sex. In this area, Christians use several euphemisms (an inoffensive expression that is substituted for one that is considered offensive). Teenagers only have to know that sex is only suitable for married people, couples that have "the duty" of procreation. 

      Another religion practised by many people all over the world is the Islam. The same as Christian religions, it does not permit sexual relationships out of marriage: <Q>.  But Muslims refer to it with a more practical sense, not so as moral (although there is it too)  as Christians in the negative aspect of this idea: <Q> . Islam defends not only the idea of procreation, but also the idea of enjoy: <Q> <R> . In this way, this religion acts in the same way as Christian ones, teenagers are said not to have sex, overall the Muslim girls(women are the really reprised by the Islam) , with many euphemisms, in the way that sex is like something untouchable. For this, these ideas seem very illogical because, as I have said in the introduction, sex is an instinct, within the drivers of human behaviour. Each person must have the right to decide what to do with her or his body, and practise sex if he or desires to do it, whether they are married or not. And young people tends to go for the other way that old people say to them, as a young Muslim says: . <Q>  As an example of this possible illogical idea of simply let out of the concept of "sex" and not inform in a objective way to teenagers would be this: All young people like trains and let's consider that the interest on them is bad (it is a supposition). They are blinded folded every time they meet a train in a station; the word "train" is not mentioned in this young people presence because it is forbidden and a mystery is created around the transports. The result would not be a decrease of interest, in the contrary, it World be a rise of it, but with the morbid sensation of the sin. This is what occurs in sexuality, but sexuality could be more interesting than trains, so the result is even worse. <R> .
      
   Against to this, there are many people (liberal groups, or single liberal persons) that are agree with sex, sex is okay, even whatever your age be. They think that sex is a human necessity, and as a necessity, you have to satisfy it. For example, if you are hungry, you eat in order to feel well, because your body ask for food. This is the same as sex, if you need it, liberal people would say you: practise it. These thoughts could be considered as reasonable in the sense of human instinct and therefore, its behaviour, but not in the practical one. These liberal ideas make teenagers feel freedom to practise sex wherever and with whoever they want. Liberal people are in favour of informing people, and even more teenagers, about the consequences of free sex, as it is said in a web page: <Q> <R> . But teenagers are in a very difficult age, they want to be known in their neighbourhood, want to be older than they are, etc. For this, liberal ideas (seen also in television, videogames, music, etc) can provoke, as I have said before, that teenagers practise sex without thinking about the consequences. They have sex with many unknown people and perhaps without putting needed measures to practise safe sex, in spite of the information. This ends up with a not desired pregnancy or with sexually transmitted diseases.
   A possible middle point of view is that people who follow a religion, but do not practise its ideas at all. Their beliefs would not accept sex, and less in young people for the fact, for example, of not been married, but they do not see badly at all that people can practise sex with their partners. This is the case of most teenagers in our society. Their parents follow a religion, but in a more "liberal" way. This change of mind could be due to a change, at the same time, of society. In past epochs a couple, for example, which had fallen in love, got married only a year later of his boyfriend hood and they have not to wait too much time to have sex and at the same time not to sin. Nowadays, this is not possible, young people, in almost cases, study in order to have a better job, the prices of houses becomes higher and higher and the life in couple arrive later. So, this waiting time to have sex cannot practically wait, because of our instinct. This has become a practical and real way of thinking about sex, and the religious moral has kept a little apart of our way of thinking. So, religion can be not so influential nowadays to teenagers. This could be considered a realistic perspective, since this idea goes in the same way as human nature. On the one hand, the religion weakness has led apart, because every human being has to be free to do anything he wants. And on the other hand, humans simply follow our own desires and drives.
   The pragmatic vision of sex teen behaviours shows us a sad reality: the patient profile for Sexually Transmitted Diseases is mostly teenagers and young adults; two thirds are younger than 25. <R> . On the one hand, going back to the theme of religions, they do not approve the use of contraceptives and researching studies affirm that <Q> . This added to the lack of information that religions make about sexual relationships, sexually transmitted diseases can be the possible consequence by those teenagers who follow a religion but in a certain moment simply follow her or her instinct. And on the other hand, liberals tends to say that it does not matter with who you have sex, and it is said that "The less sexual partners a person has, the lower the risk of infection". So, nowadays, teenagers, being religious, or not are exposed to sexual diseases. The statistics show us the liberal way of thinking that teenagers have and the free way they practise sex: many of them do not have a stable pair, do not use condoms... This occurs in this stage of the life because of the difficulties that the passing from child to adult has.
   	So then, we have seen the different points of view about teen sex. Firstly, the religious one, that in any cases sex has the purpose of enjoy, only that of procreation (except the Islam), so, teenagers are not permitted to practise, even to think about sex. Then, the liberal point of view that although, it follows the natural human instincts, it can carry bad consequences, such as sexual transmitted diseases. Sexual teen behaviour are not well at all as we can see the statistics of Sexually Transmitted Diseases. One possible answer to this problem could be that parents have to be clearer talking about sex with his teenagers.



