	The problem of violence in schools, like the related problem of violence in society, has become one of the most pressing educational issues in Spain, and mostly in all the developed countries in the world. We can distinguish who the victims and the perpetrators are when this type of violence, violence inside the classrooms, takes place. It can be committed against teachers or fellow classmates by students. The last case is also called "bullying". The perpetrators do not have nor need a serious or logical reason for lashing out or simply abuse psychologically. It could result from the perpetrator's dislike for a person or the perception that someone is weak. Nevertheless, in this essay I will argue some causes why they commit these types of crimes and the possible solutions to this actual problem.
      	There are people who think that a cause of the so called "bullying" and the violence towards teachers is the media. Firstly, playing violent video games like Mortal Kombat can increase a person's aggressive thoughts, feelings and behaviour according to two studies appearing in the April issue of the American Psychological Association's (APA). Furthermore, violent video games may be more harmful than violent television and movies because they are interactive and require the player to identify with the aggressor <Q> . As researchers assure, video games can increase violence in certain players and, consequently, they can be the cause of violence in schools and high schools. I think common video games excite children and make them to get nervous, so if we mention violent video games in which they have to punch, hit, even to kill someone in a so realistic way, incite them: First, video games can incite them to be more aggressive and then, they can incite them to become real what they do with the "simulator", as for example at school, going so far as to kill. So, from my point of view, a possible solution would be that, apart from the fact that parents have to realize what they buy for their children, or when the children are who buy video games, parents would have to revise what their children have bought, sometimes parents do not know what their adolescents do with their friends; for this, as the case of tobacco, it would not be good only by putting an advice in the cover of the video game of the age permitted to play with it, but the government should forbid the sale of violent video games. And in the case of a sale of this type of video games to a minor took place, the seller should be fined.
      Secondly, James S. Grisolía, clinical neurology specialist and professor in the University of California, considers that the mediatic cover of news and documentaries produce complex effects in the violent conduct. He defends the idea that the media can give a little realistic image of the phenomenon of violence at school and have an imitative effect. <R> . Reportages and documentaries that reflect these situations, those in which a group of adolescents are mistreating their own companions or their teacher, can incite teenagers to do the same; but, as Grisolía says, the informative cover can orientate to parents and stimulate the communication between them and their children, what would help to reduce the number of aggressions and the violent acts. <R> . To my mind, these conclusions are very coherent because television that reflect the reality, such as the violence that occurs in the schools, can carry to a violent situation but at the same time parents can know what at school happens and consequently they could take measures to solve the problem..
      And thirdly, however, if we talk about films which can exhibit violent scenes such as murders or bloody fights that are shown in an infantile schedule, the teenagers could see the murderers or the fighters as a kind of heroes or heroines and imagine themselves in that situation; they would like to be like them, a brave and valiant personage, and consequently to make it real, for example, at school. To solve this problem, in my opinion, parents would be the direct responsible to avoid children seeing this type of programs at home. If I were a mother, I would instil values and set a schedule to watch television; but at the same time I would try that this rules do not seem so strict, because children could rebel against them.
	But, contrary to the case before shown, it can occur that the environment in which the children or teenager is growing is not the appropriate. That means, for example, that the boy his or her parents are drug-addict or simply passive and do not care for him or her, such as they are not at home till night. These cases imply a development of the child alone; he grows alone, without any adult supervision. So, he or she can do what he wants and <Q> <R> . Maybe the boy has a good natural instinct and becomes a self-responsible boy or girl. But it can be the case of a child that starts living all the day in the street, what can direct him or her to bad influential people, what can make him to be a drug or alcohol addict, imitating these people around him. So, another reason for students to perpetrate violence within the classrooms could be the social environment in which they are growing. <Q> <R> . I think that, because of the effect of drugs or simply the adolescent's passivity and his rebellion against the little affection that he receives from his family, which is very needed by any human being having feelings to my view, he take his subconscious problem out on his fellows or his teacher, lashing out or mistreating them psychologically.
      If a case of this type would take place, a means would be required. One possible solution to the problem would be to implant a subject about social behaviour and how to coexist in a civilized way. This could be teach since the children are 4 years old or less, in different ways as they grow. One way would be showing the pupils films that exhibit many difficult situations with which they can be reflected, and how to resolve them. An example to this type of films, only for teenagers that have been teach in this subject since they were children, would be "American History X". This is a 1998 production that treats the topic of Neo-Nazism; it serves us to understand how these groups live and how they act all over the world. The film shows how the education is fundamental in schools so as at home to avoid that a boy joins to one of these groups. Even once he is inside it, the film tells us that the only way to make someone to abandon this way of thinking is throughout education. The protagonist abandons the group and realizes that all he had done had no sense. At the same time, this type of films can help the teachers to resolve most of the common conflicts when they take place. About this question Sanmartín, head teacher of Reina Sofía Centre, says: <Q> <R> . Apart from the fact that teachers act as adults, educating in an ethic and discipline way, supervising the boys in break hours, etc, there is a wish of training teachers in order to get the needed capacity to solve the problems that may rise in the schools; that is, because, as many professional people in the topic we are dealing with think, teachers who lack familiarity with their students are more likely to misunderstand and fear them <R> , and this provoke, in many cases, that they do not know what nor how to do it. And in my opinion, this means would be a very effective one, in what the government could start thinking about.
      In conclusion, in this essay I have dealt with the topic of violence in the childhood and adolescence, in schools and high schools. Some of the most important causes of it, on the one hand, are the media, pointing out mainly to video games and television, what are what boys are more in contact with, and on the other, the atmosphere in which the child grows, that is to say, if there is a paternal passivity towards the child, etc. This would need some solutions. Some of they I have mentioned are: the strict prohibition of buying violent videogames by children under the age permitted, and if so, a fine would correspond to the seller; the well soft habits of watching television that parents have to impose; and the new subjects about social behaviour that would be receive by pupils and another that permitted teachers to face the violent difficult situations. But this is something that professional people in the topic have to study more thoroughly and, that I think, will be abolished some day, although the mental and psychological complexity of human beings.



