	Nowadays,  piracy,  this  is  to  say,  the  infringement  that  is  done  when  people  copy  someone's  works  without  his  or  her  consent,  seems  a  very  important  problem  in  our  society.  In  Spain  and  all  over  the  world,  music  industries  that  link  together  authors,  artists,  recording  studios,  wholesalers,  ...  are  losing  huge  quantities  of  money  because  of piracy.  And  as  they  say,  it  is  the  cause  that  provoke  the  damage  to  the  culture  of  a  country  and  to  the  local talent.  However,  in  this  essay  I  will  intend  to  prove  that  these  ideas  are  not  true  at  all.

	I  strongly  believe  that  piracy  helps  to  introduce  costumers  to a  product  and  to  do  singers  more  famous. There  are  people  who  buy  legal  and  illegal  music  at  the  same  time:  they  buy  their  favourite  music  legally  and  the  music  that  they  do  not  like  so  much  is  bought  throughout  those  who  sell  it  illegally  because,  by  this  way,  its  price  is  lower  than  the  normal  one.  And  this,  consequently,  in  my  opinion,  could  benefit  discographies  and  singers  for  several  reasons.  One  reason  could  be  that, after  listening  to that  pirate  CD,  people  finally  know  the  artist,  like  so  much  his  or her  music  and  this  artist's  next  CD  is  bought  legally  by  the people  who  have  bought  it  illegally  in  the  past.  I  have  an  example  of  a  boy  16  years  old  giving  his  opinion  about  this:  "I'm a normal 16 year old guy and to be honest I don't know a single person who doesn't download music. I've done it for years now and for all the bad things that it's doing to the industry I have to say without the internet I would definitely not be as big a music fan as I am now. I go to concerts, buy CDs and sometimes even buy the t-shirts if they're cheap enough. But my point is that the internet has allowed a whole generation to experience a far wider range of music than they otherwise would have. This has given the less popular more alternative bands a chance to be recognised by our generation. So although music piracy is upfront a bad thing I think it has many, many redeemable qualities."  However,  someone  who  is  against  piracy  could  say  that  this  people  could  know  artist  by  other  sources,  as  television  or radio,  without  raising  the  level  of  piracy.  But  by  these  means  you  can  only  know  the  singer's  one  song  of  the  CD,  so  this  is  not sufficient  to  say  if  you  like  the  music  or  not  and  most  of  people  do  not  buy  a  legal  CD  because  of  fear  of  not  knowing  if  it  really  will  like  them.  So,  instead  of  television  or  radio,  you  can  have  the  opportunity  of  knowing  a  determinate  artist  by  pirate  CDs.  And  another  reason  that  would  benefit  discographies,  singers,  etc.  in  this  way  would  be  that  if  these  mentioned  people  who  buy  legal  and  illegal  music  at  the  same  time,  did  not  buy  illegal  music  to  know  some  possible  music  that  after  would  like them,  piracy  would  not  exist;  and  those  who  buy  legal  CDs  and  after  copy  them  in order  to  sell  them  illegally,  would  not  buy  those  legal  CDs  and  the  consequence  would  be  the  lost  of  vents.  But,  as  David  de  Ugarte  says  <Q> .  In  my  opinion,  this  is  not  a very  supporting  argument  to say  that  discographies  lose  money  because  if  piracy  did  not  exist  we  would  have  a  source  less  for  knowing  artists  and  people  would  not  buy  these  CDs  because  they  would  have  not  had  the opportunity  of  knowing  them  and  even  more,  people  would  not  go  to  their  concerts,  what  is  really  the  source  of  earning  money  in  my opinion.

	Another  point  is  that  I  personally  believe  that  the  price  of  CDs  is  so  expensive. In  this  web  page <R> <Q> . Really,  the  discographies  bloat  the  prices  and  because  of  that  people  resort  to  piracy.  However,  there  are  people  who  do  not  think  the  same,  as  a  person  in  a  forum  in  the  internet  defend,  <Q> .  Yes,  if  you  have  not  money  to  buy  legal  music,  it  would  be  better  not  to  help  to  raise  piracy.  But  what  would  be  the  difference  between  not  buying  this  music  or  sharing  it  by  the internet, in  E-mule,  for  example  for  the  earning  of  the  music  industries?  I  think  that  they  would  not  lose  any  money  because  people  without  possibilities  to  buy  music,  as  young  people,  would  not  have  bought  it.  And  in  this  way,  this  people  are  able  to  get  it  and  to  inform  those  who  can  have money  to  buy  music.  Even  more,  I can  give  an  example:  sales  of  bottled  water  show  that  even  though  there  is  water  free,  does  not  necessarily  eliminate  markets.

	Another  topic  is  the  "digital  canon",  an  extra  tax  that  is  imposed  when  buying  a  blank  CD or  DVD.  As  in  <R> <Q>   As  it  is  said  here  that  they  are  against  this  canon,  it  appears  to  me  that  with  this  extra  money  that  we  must  to  pay  when  we  buy  a  blank  CD  or  DVD,  which  will  be  used  later,  for  example,  to  copy  our  own  legal  music  in  order  to  be  listened  in  our  car  when  we  will  travel  and  at  home  when  we  stay  there,  or  only  to  copy  information,  the  discographies  get  this  "lost  money"  caused  by  piracy.  Nevertheless,  some  people  feel  that  this  is  necessary  for  the  surviving  of  discographies  and  all  that  is  around  them.  But,  in  my  opinion,  piracy  should  be  legal,  because  we  are  paying  already  for  it  through  the  coda,  although  we  do  not  pirate  CDs  or  DVDs  and  discographies  and  singer  are  getting  it.

	Personally  speaking,  piracy  contributes  to  the  expanding  of  anyone's  country  culture  and  his own  abroad.  If  you  share  music,  you  would  be  able  to  know  singers  of  all  over  the  world.  This  is  a  very  quick  way  to  make  known  an  artist,  and  in  this  manner,  his  songs,  and  then  his  country  would  be  more  famous.  For example,  a  new  band  with  no  so  much  resources,  they  would  be  share  its  music  in  E-mule  in  order  to  get  to  know,  even  abroad  its  country.  This  idea  can  be  seen  too  in  a  forum  in  the  internet,  <R> <Q>   But,  of  course  it  is  possible  to  argue  that  they  could  use  another  methods  to  make  to  know  them.  They  could  go to  a  radio  or  to  a  television  program.  But  nowadays  this  is  to  difficult  for  singers, because  many  people  wants  to  be  famous  throughout  televisions,  and,  perhaps,  they  would  get  known  only  in   their  own  country.  Nevertheless,  the  internet,  and  more  the  program  E-mule,  is  a  more  effective  and  a faster  way  to  spread  music.  So, with  this,  the  band  could  be  able  to  go  to  those  countries  in  order  to  make  some  concerts  and  they  could  expand  there  its  musical  culture  and  talent.
	
      So  then,  this  essay  has  considered  that  piracy  helps  to  make  known  singers,  which  contributes  to  the  after  selling  of  legal  CDs  if  they  are  admired  by  people,  and  therefore  contributes  too  to  its  own  country  and  culture  by  expanding  their  music  abroad;  that  the  prices  of  CDs  are  so  high  that  raise  piracy  and  that  because  of  the  "digital  canon",  the  extra  tax  that  is  imposed  when  buying  a  blank  CD or  DVD,  discographies  do  not  lose  any  money  in  a  consequence  of  piracy.  Having  describing  all  these  points,  I  believe  that  "piracy"  is  not  going  to  disappear,  at  least  not  nowadays  in  a  fast  way,  because  as  you  can  see,  it  has  some  positive  qualities.

