
        In modern times, offences committed by children have became a striking 
problem within society. Recent studies have shown that lots of factors are involved 
when children start to act as criminals in our surroundings. It seems that, family has 
a  great deal to do in order to avoid this issue. Nevertheless, there are another 
reasons like poverty, violent films and the abuse of drugs, that increase the 
situation. Recently, a study of the National Institute of Mental Health, which 
observed several families in high-risk, found that "only six percent of the children 
from stables homes, even in the poorest neighbourhood, became delinquents, while 
ninety percent of the children from homes rated as unstable and unsafe became 
delinquents". This research is a reason to think that, this issue can be taken in time. 
In this essay I intent to argue what are, from my point of view, preventions and 
possible solutions which could be carry out.
   Firstly, I personally believe that persons need more attention in childhood than in 
adulthood. This has to do with  the idea that, generally believed, children do not be 
fully aware of being a violent behaviour. Undoubtedly, in my view, parents or 
guardians have a great deal in order to prevent or reduce offences committed by 
their children. It is no necessary to say that, they play a role not only as fathers but 
as educators as well, because children may imitate what are observing. From my 
point of view, it could be recognized the relevance of parents providing basic 
disciplines as the best environment for children. However, teachers have a great 
deal of responsibility to reduce violent behaviour among children, and also to 
prevent offences committed by them. Although, nowadays, children do not have 
respect neither teachers nor classmates. My view point is that, it is caused by an 
educationally deprived background at home.
   Possible solutions would be, from my point of view, to educate parents in certain 
disciplines, so that they could make children aware of those. For instance, there 
should be courses available for patents to learn how to behave at home. Moreover, 
I believe that, the communication between parents and teachers is highly important, 
so they should share a close relationship in order to observe the children's 
behaviour both at home and at school.
	Secondly, personally speaking, I believe that television is another factor which 
increases violence in children, since they tend to identify with the perpetrator of the 
violence. Some evidences show us that parental co-viewing of T.V. reduces the 
identification with the person committing the violent act. On the other hand, it is 
reasonable to think that parents can not be looking after them twenty four hours a 
day or supervising what they watch on TV. On the contrary, as far as I am 
concerned, Governments could regulate programmes in  determined hours, 
certainly this would be a commitment between parents and authorities, working 
together for reducing violence on T.V.
	In fact, not only does responsibilities lie on Governments or channels, but also on 
parents. As I said before, they should have a higher control on what their children 
watch. That can easily be done by means of a T.V-chip which would not allow 
children to watch the programs that, in the view of parents, are harmful for them. 
	Third, I strongly believe that, another factors which may increase offences 
committed by children and a violent behaviour carry out for them, would be the 
extremely poorest in which children live and, those who suffer violence by their 
own parents. It is no necessary to say that, from my point of view, in both cases, 
they become violent because of lack of discipline, affect and education. On the 
other hand, it might be argued that, the problem is the justice system. This has to 
do with the idea of children acting as adults and prosecuted as children. However, 
it has been said that sending young criminals to prison, could not reduce their 
criminal activities, but may increase the offences. Nevertheless, it appears to me 
that, for preventing or reducing offences in these cases, there should have more 
control among children who live in the streets. Also, for those who suffer 
negligence by their parents, it would be necessary more surveillance by the 
competent organisms to look after children's welfare.
	 To get over  this obstacle, there available two options, from my point of view: 
Either associations that work for children's welfare or refuge centres, where 
children are treated and taught correctly. Personally speaking, both of those 
solutions would prevent children from being out in the streets and subsequently 
from committing offences.  
	Finally, as I view it, another important factor dealing with these young offenders, 
is the abuse of drugs. From my point of view, alcohol is included as kind of drug, 
so I will refer to it that way from now onwards. Some researches argue that four 
out of ten offenders self-report that they were using drugs at the time of the 
offence. However, according to the data of Governments, there are positive 
indicators which show that this type of crimes are decreasing. Although, the rate of 
offenders under drugs influence has decreased, I still feel that the problem has not 
been solved and, what is more, yet there seems not to be a prevention for it at all.  
	It is widely agreed, that the better solution as regards to those offenders, would be 
imprison them. On the contrary, the output of a treatment received while 
incarcerated, is for offenders to use and abuse of drugs. Since that solution, 
although widely spread, is not efficient, I strongly believe that the best way to solve 
it re-educating them, in centres where they can be detoxified.
	So then, my essay has considered both preventions and solutions to the so much 
up-to date problem of young offenders. First of all, I have dealt with four main 
causes influencing children who commit soft crimes: Education by both parents 
and teachers has a lot to do with a child to develop a violent behaviour; in addition, 
T.V can raise violent aspects in some children. It is worth mentioning that the 
socio-economic background where children are brought up highly influences in 
their behaviour. And finally, other aspects, external to their closest surroundings 
which may take part, are drugs. It appears to me, that the best solution by far, is the 
prevention of these causes as I have been saying in my essay. Nevertheless, if 
lacking preventions, there are some solutions available. For instance, a better 
communication among teachers, parents and children; also, there is a possibility to 
instal a chip on the T.V. in order to control what children watch. Presides, some 
associations can take care of children in good conditions. Finally, there should be 
more information about harmful drugs. As a personal comment, I would say that 
children need a great deal of attention for the problem to be avoided in the future.
