

              Throughout history, many debates about differences between male and female 
have been carried out by psychologists, sociologists and feminists. Some researches 
show us that men and women have biological and social differences. Undoubtedly, 
these have to do with the relationship between sex and gender. Moreover, most studies 
widely accept that sex is a biological variable, given with birth, while gender resembles 
a socially contested characteristic, which is accepted during life <R>. Many people as psychologists and scientists, believe in biological 
differences against those who believe in the influence of society . Moreover, there are 
other people who may argue that the distinction is the output of a mixture of both 
factors. In this essay, I am going to show the main arguments that people use 
concerning the differences between male and female.
   To begin with, It seems to be that male and female are different, not only from 
external anatomical sexual differences, but also biological ones. Some people would 
claim that one of the main explanations for the origin of male and female differences is 
attributed to sex chromosomes and hormones <R>. The general view is that, 
humans have twenty-three pairs of chromosomes within each cell; twenty-two of these 
are alike in both males and females. However, every woman has in her cells two of what 
is called X chromosome, while a man has just one X, and an Y chromosome according 
to Your Heredity and Environment, 2004. The presence of this Y chromosome is 
relevant in order to show genetic differences between both of them. Moreover, as Wong 
claim, hormones, especially testosterone, widely affects to male: a recent study taken by 
The university of Wisconsin, 2004 in which  <Q> <R>. 
   Furthermore, It is apparently true that, there are brain differences between male and 
female, these have to do with the idea of intellectual abilities and how they process 
information. Research suggests that women and men are strikingly different, as they are 
too in the way their brains process language <R>. It has relevance in the 
way that, brain is divided into two hemispheres, each one with a specific function. Also, 
lateralization refers to the specialization in the functioning of each hemisphere. The left 
one specializes in verbal abilities and the right one specializes in spatial perception 
<R>. Undoubtedly, recent studies argue that, lateralization begins 
earlier in females, thus giving them an advantage in the verbal domain (foreign 
language, speech articulation, reading, writing and simple math calculation). However, 
males show superior spatial skills such as mental rotation, mechanical reasoning, math 
calculation, verbal analogies and science knowledge <R>.
    It appears that, according to researches showed before, male and female are different 
from a biological point of view. Nevertheless, this does not mean that one of them is 
superior to the other. The reasons given above, clearly justify the biological differences 
between each sex, yet those do not explain the social ones.
   On the other hand, the fact that there are social differences between male and female 
has to do with gender, <Q> <R>. From a social feminist perspective in the Turkish society, they argue that these 
differences are a consequence of women's social position or, of their position within the 
sexual division of labour. And what is more, whereas male has been active in the public 
sphere of production, politics, war and science, women's activities by and throughout 
history have been confined to the domestic/reproductive and private spheres <R>. These have to do with the idea that some females are 
grown up with an specific role in the society. Also, social feminism argues that social 
structures as work, family and social life, limit experiences and socialization of women.                                                                                                   
   Furthermore, other social differences have a great deal with the idea that, most women 
have always been discriminated in the labour camp. They are paid less than men in the 
same type of job. This is evidenced by the case of Karen Anderson, a history professor 
at the University of  Arizona <Q>. Moreover, according to the first major study of women in the legal 
profession in Scotland for thirty years, reveals a massive gender pay disparity. It shows 
that female lawyers are earning up to 42,000 pounds less than their male counterparts. 
Also, the report found those in the job for up to ten years earn 9,000 pounds less than 
men doing the same work; while there is a pay gap of 36,000 pounds between male and 
female lawyers who are up to twenty-five years into their careers <R>. 
   Undoubtedly, it seems that both male and female play a role in the society, and this is 
sometimes due to cultural values. However, neither genetic researches nor social 
motives should be separated, but a mixture between them seems to be a more reasonable 
point of view.   
   Nevertheless, some people believe that there are both biological and social differences 
between male and female, and what is more, one is related to the other. For instance, 
according to Male-female Differences in Mortality in the Developed World,  biological 
factors can explain only a part of the variation in mortality between the two sexes; 
social, environmental and behavioural factors must also play a role. Undoubtedly, the 
mortality in industrialized countries is provoked in most cases, by cardiovascular 
diseases and lung cancer. Also, these are closely related to social and behavioural 
factors. Some researchers show that adverse behaviours such as smoking, drinking and 
working in hazardous occupations, contribute to excess male mortality. In addition, the 
recent decrease from lung cancer are due in part to decreases in male smoking rates 
<R>. However, smoking rates have increased for 
women, which shows that mortality from lung cancer in females has also been affected 
Moreover, males are more likely to die from chronic liver disease and cirrhosis than 
females, as the result of higher rates of alcohol consumption <R>. Furthermore, the epidemic of coronary heart disease in industrialized 
countries, following several decades after increased consumption of dietary fats, have 
affected more men than women <R>.
   It appears that, not only do biological differences affect male and female, but also 
social ones. As I said before, this mid point could be one of the best ways to explain the 
current differences between men and women.
   To sum up, my has dealt with three main different points of view: first of all, a genetic 
explanation gives no enough evidences because it does not take in to account the social 
ones. Secondly, many people would think that the differences are social based, yet this 
point of view neither gives a complete overview. Finally, the point of view which 
gathers a greater evidence is the one that mixes both biological and social. Nevertheless, 
since biological differences can not be solved, we as part of the society should take 
some steps in order to get over the social ones.





