     
     
        Throughout history, poverty has always been one of the most striking problems in 
many societies. A recent research suggests that, not only does responsibility of poverty lie 
on Governments and industrialized countries, but also there are different factors which 
cause poverty in certain places like climate and natural disasters. Furthermore, there are 
many different points of view regarding this issue. Some people argue that the main cause 
has to be with politics and Governments, education and culture seems to be other important 
factor causing poverty, besides under another point of view climate and natural disasters is 
the chief cause. It appears that, all of these causes of poverty are physically located in the 
so called South or Third World. In this essay I will try to show the different points of view 
about what causes poverty and try to explain my personal opinion.
     Firstly, the more spread believing concerning this topic is that Governments are the 
main causers of poverty. Hence, in some countries, the lack of democracy and corruption 
are related. Some people would argue that both Africa and the Developed World are 
responsible for the poverty in Africa <R>. According to Dr. Nyansako, this has a 
great deal with the idea of corruption: <Q>.  In addition, he states that the cancellation of 
debt does not belong to he citizens of a nation, rather <Q>. In a similar way, people like Luc Zagbo and Addulai Musa, think that 
<Q> <R>.
     From my personal point of view, these arguments are reasonable taking into account 
that governments are the institutions that actually hold power, so they are directly 
responsible for the situation of each country. It seems to be true that where democracy is 
settled, power lies on citizens. However, in many countries belonging to the Third World, 
there is not democracy at all. Therefore, in some cases, this point of view gives a good 
explanation, but this argument seems not to be the main cause for poverty in countries 
where there is democracy. Personally speaking, education has a lot to do with the idea of 
politics and the development of each country. It appears to me that, by means of education 
citizens would be aware of corruption and thus, take part in politics.
     Secondly, as I said before, education and culture can be a cause for poverty as well. 
There are a high number of people who believe <Q>.  
What is more, it is readily believed that education and information can redress the 
disadvantage that these countries suffer from, because they empower people, provide them 
with knowledge, skills and attitudes and prepare them to face possible responsibilities that 
may come their way <Q> <R>.
     My personal opinion of this argument is that, education is the main base for the 
development of a country. Nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, governments are directly 
responsible of the widening of education. Hence, it appears to me that, stating that 
education is the main cause of poverty is asserting that governments are the cause of it. In 
my view, both arguments are important factors causing poverty. Yet, it should be bared in 
mind that external factors could be causers of poverty as well. In many cases, certain 
climates and natural disasters may cause a poverty situation. 
     Finally, global climate combined with environmental degradation may cause a region 
to become more vulnerable regarding poverty: earthquakes, droughts, floods, volcanic 
eruptions and hurricanes, have left a trail of destruction. According to a report by the 
Regional Delegation of Guatemala "these disasters not only taking lives but destroying 
physical infrastructures and disrupting production in vast areas of these countries". These 
natural disasters increase the poverty of the population because the post-disaster 
rehabilitation involves a huge economic lost for both, citizens and the economy of that 
country. What is more, when a natural disaster like those occurs, these countries may ask 
other countries for help, which would increase their international debt. 
     I strongly believe that climate has a lot to do with the poverty of a country. It seems to 
me that, climate change is mainly produced by the industrialized countries affecting every 
one of us. For my part, I feel that poor people is more vulnerable to these disasters because 
they enhance their poverty. Finally, the conclusion to which I have arrived is that, all these 
factors cause poverty and all of them are related: governments are responsible of both 
economic and educational powers, and then, is the main institution that can take those 
countries out of poverty.   
     One of the best ways of summing up my essay is stating that everybody should be 
aware of this problem in order to improve the quality of life of poor people. As I have said 
throughout my essay, there are three main causes of poverty: governments, lack of 
education and natural disasters. The first one of these causes includes corruption and lack 
of democracy maintaining poverty in these countries. The second has to do with the low 
rate of literate people in these countries. At the same time, citizens since lack of education 
also lack of sources to avoid poverty. The third cause is climate change which may increase 
the poverty that some countries have by means of running them out of economic power.
     My personal conclusion about this issue is that, all of these causes are closely related 
and I think that all of them should work together against poverty. Besides, I would argue 
that a possible solution could be a commitment among all nations which should involve the 
establishment of democracy and an improvement in the educational system in those 
countries. Also, Kyoto's Protocole could play a key role to reduce the emissions of gases 
which directly affect climate change producing natural disasters. It is worth to mention that 
these causes are in a vicious circle, so it is very difficult to achieve a feasible solution. 
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

 
 
 
 


