Saturday, 30th of December 2006 has come to be without doubt a crucial date in terms of world wide social and political debate. The last moment on earth of the <Q>  by hanging can be followed second by second by the entire world <R> . Being above 18 is the only requirement to have access to the cell-phone video broadcasted by Al-Iraqiya state television few hours after his death, the full <R> . Now that the action has irreversibly been carried out, the whole trail left by the brutal rise and fall of this dictator seems to be nothing but a puzzling pile of international confusion which, in my opinion, doesn't let the real-self look at the issue properly; that of capital punishment. There are too many facts to list in respect to Sadam Hussein's blood shedding; in fact, there are so many that a recent poll carried out by Harris Interactive in six major countries showed that five of them supported his execution by more than half of the people questioned, leaving only one -Italy- out of it <R> . So it's clear that the scars left by war and genocide are always too deep for the public eye to forget. However, this hasn't stopped Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch to see beyond the figure of the assassin and inform of the violation to the right to life instead. Yet, above all, it should be added that Iraq's government reinstated the death penalty in August, 2004 -in cases of murder, kidnapping and drug-dealing- therefore, Hussein's death sentence in his own country last 5th of November was as unavoidable as expected <R> . Taking all into account, the aim of this essay is to analyse both of Sadam's roles; that of the tyrant, and that of the human being through different communities' responses, in order to find out whether such a humiliating end truly served any purpose.

To begin with, it should be said that Saddam Hussein was captured in December-2003 near his home town; eight months after the launching of the US- led war to disarm Iraq. He had supplanted the former Iraqi president in 1979 with the Ba'ath party, and since then, ruled the country under a dictatorship which came to be brutal in all its extent, nearly 25 years <R> . The International Criminal Court created in July-2002 has only legal competence from the date of its creation onwards, and Saddam was to face charges against humanity since the start of his ruling, therefore he was tried by a domestic or national court- that is, with Iraqi judges and prosecutors <R> . He was then found guilty of murder, torture and forced deportation and so convicted of crimes against humanity for the killings of 148 people in the Shia town of Dujail in 1982. As mentioned before, since the death penalty was restored in 2004, he was sentenced to death, together with another two members. And he was put to death not long after <R> .

The feedback after the event considering Saddam as a tyrant is not surprisingly that of 'what goes around comes around' or 'he got what he deserved', in general.  Yet, the fear of further consequences to arise from this execution is as predictable as normal in an unstable country like Iraq. The Shia southern provinces and Shia areas around Baghdad, for example, started celebrating and chanting a few moments after the execution was announced <R> . The same happened with the Iraqi-Americans celebration in Dearborn, Michigan, the largest concentration of Iraqis in the United <R> . Mowaffak al- Rubaie, Iraq's national security adviser, made strong emphasis on having executed Hussein and not the other two men, for that date should be regarded as a 'historic distinction'. Obviously, president Bush's statement on the execution was introduced by this opening sentence: <Q>  <R> .

Not so happy seemed the Kurd community though, in reference to the trial that Hussein won't be able to stand anymore, that of the terrible gas attack on the town of Hallabjah in 1988, which killed 5,000 people <R> . Sunnis themselves soon reacted to Saddam's execution through a car bombing with as many as 30 dead in the Shia city of Kufa. Likewise, in Libya, three days of mourning were announced for the late president. In fact, as it has been suggested by Zaki Chehab, London bureau chief of the Middle Eastern Al Hayat-LBC TV, more tension is expected to emerge out of this issue in different Eastern spots; that would include Iran, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon for the Shia's part and Libya and Palestine for the Sunni's <R> . Mr. Blair has stood on the side of those who condemn the execution since the UK is against capital punishment; however, he also mentioned that it was for the Iraqis to decide on Hussein's fate.

On the other hand, looking at the issue through the eyes of those who were able to see a human being sentenced to death behind the monster figure, it should be said that protests against the ex-dictator's sentence sprang soon after from different sources. The end could be seen before it happened: the French CETIM ("Centre Europe-Tiers Monde") expressed his doubts openly to the UN regarding the right of every person to be tried fairly by a competent and independent tribunal. In the case of Saddam -and knowing he couldn't be tried by the International Criminal Court- CETIM claimed that a proper, accredited and representative tribunal should be created in Iraq, freely elected by the Iraqis under international supervision -that is, without the Americans still in the country-. There was a problem arising from this suggestion, though: having an independent process against Saddam could have dragged some others to prosecution for incrimination. In other words, those who happened to have helped Hussein by providing weapons (British, American, French, Russian and Chinese companies-whose identities were listed in 12,000 pages given by the Iraqi government to the UN in 2002) and therefore to have been directly related in cases such as that of the 5,000 deaths by the gas attack in Hallabjah <R> .

Today, thanks to Amnesty International, we know that Hussein was denied of legal counsel during the first year of his arrest, we also know that the court failed in witnesses protection -as three of them were assassinated-, and, taking literal words of Malcolm Smart, Director of the Middle East and North-Africa Programme, we also know that <Q> <R>.  This was also predicted by Human Rights Watch in 2003, when suggested that the creation of a mixed domestic-international court in Iraq should have been a priority in order to administer fair justice in the case <R> . Regarding the European Union in its Declaration by the Presidency on behalf of the European Union on the occasion of the World Day against Death Penalty of October-2006, it was assumed that <Q> . That was only two months before the execution.

So then, personally speaking, how comes there had been so much prediction and yet nobody had been able to do anything about it? I can not work out how could this have happened whilst the Americans were -and are- still in the country, or how comes nobody is going to be held responsible directly or indirectly for 5000 deaths. Even less when I think of the atrocity of the execution itself, as my honest opinion is that once Hussein was arrested and held a war prisoner, even a life sentence would have made no difference as far as the result is concerned. Even better, as he would have been capable to stand other expected trials, and so others would have gone to trial as well. But maybe is in here where the key of the execution's purpose lies. Add to that the show of a two and a half minute video and the constant hammering of the media, and there you go: real purposes can't be seen anymore, as if it were magic. Instead, society gets involved in debating the easiest part of the issue as a whole, that of whether he deserved it for being a tyrant and a monster. I find ironic the way one dictator could end up 'resting in peace' in consecrated land whereas another was world wide watched being humiliated and hanged without even finishing his prayers. The abhorrent manner in which the execution was carried out has been strongly rejected by the UK, Italy and France <R> . And so, by me.

In any case, there's no way back now. He was executed and that was the end of it, or of the first part, at least. The second one, which is left again to individuals to be dealt with -unfortunately-, is nothing but the fear of what is to come next in the so called by president Bush 'War of Terror'. As Oliver Miles very well suggested in his comment published in The Guardian in November-2006, <Q> . So there you go, no hope for the year coming. We won't see peace in that part of the world this year.

To conclude, after having gone through Saddam Hussein's execution from different collectives -taking into account the responses of those who were tyrannized and those who were not as well as those who tried to deal with it by avoiding the tyrant role- there is nothing left to be said regarding the 'irreparable' action that had been predicted. Unfortunately, there will definitely be something in respect to the consequences that might derive from the execution of an Arab -tyrant or not-, though. Amnesty International provides with official measures to express discontent with Saddam's execution as well as with hundreds of capital punishment cases around the world. As for myself, personally -I'm totally against capital punishment-; I would definitely make emphasis on expressing total disagreement with those cases that -like Hussein's- had no opportunity for the sentence to be commuted, a human right. If everybody interested showed a little concerned and took some action, the horrible death of the dictator could still serve a purpose after all, that of total abolition of the death penalty.





 





