
The 25th of November is regarded as the international day of action against gender violence. This kind of violence or abuse is with no doubt one of the most horrifying issues that modern society has to face, especially as the number of female victims in 2006 is, so far, higher than those of 2005 by two victims <R> . Yet, taking a closer look at what the media in general report about the problem -particularly on that day-, there seems to be a tendency of referring to men as aggressors and women as victims. In fact, it is not difficult to know that nearly everyday there's another case of spouse murder in which again, a wife, ex-wife, girlfriend or female partner finishes her days on earth at her male partner's powerful hands. You just have to turn the TV on and wait for the news to break. However, it seems society is not questioning what happens when roles are reversed, as it would be normal -as well as easier- to believe that men are bigger, physically stronger, and therefore not likely to be treated like Muppets. Unfortunately, that's not the case: men also get battered and murdered by women's hands. The aim of this essay therefore is to introduce the idea of men as victims of domestic violence as well as to show that, in those cases, Justice does not seem to work the same way than when the victim is a woman.

To start with, it should be argued that the appearance of abuses in couples should be contemplated with the same objectiveness no matter the sex of the executor.  Women have always been presented as the ones who are verbally and physically abused due to their weaker condition: statistically, in Spain, there have been 61 cases of female deaths this year <R>  and more than one woman in ten gets battered <R> . Most of these cases are actually very appalling as they seem to be amazingly cruel, inhuman, due to the brutality exercised when performed. This view appears to be emphasized by the sad and never ending issue of the unbalanced civilization when regarding gender, which leads again to the inferior role that women are to represent in a male dominant society. It is true that, fortunately, there seems to be a shared conscience of the problem, and consequently, there also seems that governments in general are taking preventing measures which we, society, expect to work some day or another. However, the news about battered men is so scarce that it might make it seem impossible to happen. Ironically, this is not only possible but very common, actually.

Considering a study by statisticians Langan & Dawson on spouse murder defendants in urban counties held in 1998, after examining each of the 540 cases of spouse murder, it was found out that the difference in number between husband defendants and wife defendants wasn't very high. It came up to 59% for husbands and to 41% for wives. Apart from this, the whole work explains in detail plenty of the cases and reaches another very interesting conclusion regarding the use of a lethal weapon -either a gun or a knife- . This is interesting considering the image of wives' inferiority, as statistics show how weapons were used by females in a 95% of the cases, whereas by males in a 69%.  There are cases nowadays of women aggressors that sound as terrifying as those led by men, such as the case of a 59-year-old woman from Kent who killed her husband by blowing an axe on him 11 times <R> , or the 43-year-old woman who stabbed her husband with an eight-and-a-half blade knife <R> . However, it could be argued that, for women to kill men, it is necessary to use a weapon to make up for the physical difference. In any case, there is another study in the subject held by Profesor Martin S. Fiebert in which, after having compiled more than 72000 cases, it is reached as a conclusion that women are physically more aggressive in relationships than men. 

In relation to this, there is a portrait of the female that is likely to abuse of a man in terms of behavioural patterns and health-mental problems <R> , that is the case of: the violence prone woman, when abused as a child, women with drug-alcohol problems, with eating disorders, with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), when they enter pre-menopause, when they hit or throw things and also when the woman's partner cannot do anything right anymore. However, as it is said also by Langan & Dawson, there was a big difference between husbands and wives considering their state at the moment in which the killings occurred. Particularly, when a killing took place out of the passion which involves a situation of jealousy, statistics show a 10% of wife defendant cases to a 20% of husbands; when there had been drug abuse at the time of the killing, there's a 3% of wives to a 22% of husbands; and finally, when there had been alcohol drinking at the time of the killing, statistics show a 37% of wife cases to a 66% of husbands. It could be concluded then that women, in general, were less likeable to be affected by external causes than men- so they might not be so weak after all. 

Anyhow, if it is as normal for a woman to suffer from domestic abuse as it is for a man, why then there seems to be more women that jump out for help than men? The most widely supported reason is that of abused men being ashamed to recognise they're being battered by their female partners <R> .Then there's also the belief that, as if feeling ashamed were not enough, it is highly improbable that the same legal measures are going to be applied had the case been on the other way around. As it is shown by Langan & Dawson, most women prefer to introduce provocation on trial, and this way, they take a line in self-defence. The results were clear: 56% of women that took provocation where convicted, in comparison to the 86% of those who didn't or those unprovoked men that reached an 88%. There's no need to say that it is very difficult for a man to prove self-defence against an "inferior woman" if it doesn't exist a visual recording -which may not even be taken into account for trial anyway. Likewise, of the cases that went to trial either by a judge or a jury, 31% of women were acquitted whereas only 6% of men. Furthermore, the average prison sentences were of 6 years for women in contrast to 16.5 years that were given to men. The cases mentioned above -the axe and knife women- were both sorted with a three-year community rehabilitation order each. In Spain, of 436 women that went to trial, only 61% were convicted; 8 of 10 men were convicted, however <R> . There are some other cases in which men decide to stick to the relationship because they fear leaving their children behind; as it is widely known and shared the view of the mother as the primary parent in modern society <R> , which would be another issue on its own. 

To conclude, after accepting the role of men abused -not only abuser- and after having analysed some of the reasons why those cases seem not to be as easily spread as when women are abused, it would be fair to conclude that violence seems to be socially banned when exercised upon a woman but socially permitted when exercised upon a man. Yet, we know that it shouldn't work that way; if there's a day and a law against gender violence, then it should definitely apply to both genders. Maybe the problem lays in the name itself: if this kind of violence were regarded as a human problem rather than a gender issue, it would be more difficult for gender tendencies to arrive, and it would also help some other questions concerning homosexual couples where there's no difference of gender, for example. In any case, a possible solution is the one that comes from education. It may seem that education is always the drawer for lost causes, but it is not. Educating future generations on equality of sexes since they are young should be a priority in primary schools. A little bit of well balanced information wouldn't be a bad idea either: we see women with black eyes on television, but we do not see men. And it would be nice also to get a little support from time to time from the politicians that represent us -women and men- every day, especially from this government, as it is highly regarded due to its women-integrating policy. Fair is fair, for us all.

