     At first there were Adam and Eve, happy in their happy Paradise. But he soon became fed up with poor Eve and got rid of her, joining another male partner. As their love grew up intensely, they decided it was the right time to convey it to their offspring. However, almighty God considered it naturally impossible for two males to conceive a baby; instead of being disappointed with it, Adam proposed: "Let's adopt!". As the reader may suppose, this is a  21th century fictional version of the Genesis blibical book which somehow exemplifies the current situation in relationship matters. Is it fair that same-sex couples were allowed to adopt a child?. Once homosexual marriage has been legalized in some countries and states, the second reasonable stage to consider is wether they should also be able to adopt or not. Maybe it is quite soon to reflect upon that issue, just as this sort of marriage is not still widely accepted. Nevertheless, in this essay I have gathered some of the views concerning this topic in order to analyse them and help the reader reach a neat final conclusion.

     As I said, gay and lesbian marriage is still under moral observance by a great part of the population. Although it has been made legal in some countries as Spain or Netherlands, people is not yet ready or willing to take it seriously. One of arguments against it - the most religious, I must admit - is the fact that these couples cannot conceive a child: they are naturally impeded to do it. Marriage, as far as religion is concerned, means reproduction (it is the medium to get it); then it is logical for those people to argue that while homosexual partners are not able to have blood descendants, marriage is forbidden to them, as well as child adoption. If nature - or God - has not granted them with that privilege, it is consequently a social wrongness  their getting it. This would be a strong argument against homosexual fostering, were it not for the fact that these people are not against any kind of adoption. Let me go into this matter.

     Child adoption is a measure taken by couples when they cannot give birth to a child by means of pregnancy; that is to say, marriages with sterile problems will finally consider the fact of adoption, apart from other ways as artificial insemination. It is true that I cannot generalize, though the reader may agree it happens in most cases.  Since these heterosexual couples are unable to naturally reproduct, just as homosexual ones, then it could be discussed their fostering a baby. This is the idea of many people to refutate what I was exposing in the last paragraph: they state that assuming the against argument would mean a prohibition not only of child adoption for infertile families, but also of marriage. Objectively considering the impossibility of this, the roof simply falls down on their heads.

     Another negative views on this topic deal with the fact of assuming that the son or daughter of a gay or lesbian couple will turn out to be gay or lesbian, and so in a far future the continuity of mankind would be in a real trouble. People against homosexual adoption also think in the child's benefit by a strong defense of the traditional family framework. Roles would disrupt, so that a child will not get mom's emotional and empathic love, and dad's strength male features:   <Q> <R> . These people state that a child would never have a proper education if such conditions are not present in a family, he or she would be confused. To get a correct general perspective on these matters, the reader have to know the other side of the scales.

     For refusing the first argument proposed in the paragraph above, many people attach their ideas to statistics: <Q> <R> . They maintain that similar to homosexual children born in heterosexual families, there exist heterosexual people brought up in homosexual environments; and as the quotation above expresses, there is a high percent of heterosexuals who come from same-sex couples. It is finally argued that <Q>.  Statistics never lie. Concerning the destruction of family roles, the pro homosexual adoption perspective simply displays several current schemes of families different from the traditional ones to evidence that new social forms do work in nowadays society: single-parent families (where there is just one adult role) or families with shifting roles (the mother works out of home, while the father remains doing the housework), for instance. What these variety of familiar groups prove to them is that society today has evoluted so much that archaic behaviours or prejudices have been taken aside; children raised in these new familiar forms are as "normal" as those brought up in traditional ones.
     
     As it seems to me, all this has to do with change and progression: there has always been people more affected by evolution, whereas others look forward it. This can be seen not only on social or sexual issues, but also in politics (conservative and liberal people) and many other areas.

     Related to this matter of change or acceptance of new lifestyles is the concept of discrimination. We all are aware of the term "bullying", it is quite a fashionable word which refers to the violence suffered by infants in schools or high schools due to discrimination by their partners. Children are somehow cruel, that is something everybody knows - or may admit-, and many people think it would be a great source for bullying if a child were born to same-sex marriages. That child would be humilliated, vexed or even hit by schoolmates whose parents had not been capable of teaching them on terms of equality. The bullying will possibly evolve to psychologic disorders which may give the child several complexes and make him be unhappy for the rest of his life. This realistic argument is something to take into account, as we are talking of little kids with all their life before them. However, as many people think, the banning of homosexual fostering will not stop violence in class: if it is not because of the sexual option of a child's parents, it will be due to his fat complexion, or his wearing classes, or even his being born to interracial families. It is believed that as cases will start to take place, the situation would finally normalize. Nevertheless, it is not something at all realiable, so we cannot base on it to decide wether homosexual marriages should be allowed to adopt.

     Something which is really likely to happen, that is to say, a realistic view on the topic is that which says by legalizing homosexual adoptions the number of homeless children will radically be reduced. As the range of possible adopting marriages increases, it a matter of fact that the number of adopted children would then reduce. Moreover, many people argue that as homosexuals are more aware of social problems (they themselves had to surmount a lot of obstacles in life), the education a same-sex couple could give to their son or daughter would be better from a social perspective: they would be taught in terms of equality, respect and defense of freedom. These same people believe homosexual families would not have any problem in fostering a disabled child, or a kid with aids or any other serious illness. Being it true, it is something extremely valuable which would deserve a deep and close examination on the topic.

      Finally, I cannot do anything more as a conclusion than summarize the reader the important points I have dealt with in this essay. Both sides of the issue have strong and persuasive arguments. On the one hand, allowing child adoption by same-sex couples would serve greatly as a social weapon against discrimination or intolerance, apart from being an incredibly valuable source of improving children's conditions and rights. On the other hand, maybe nowadays society is not still ready to conceive it, so that instead of giving those adopted children any benefit it could involve traumatic experiences not desirable for them. What everybody must have in mind when reflecting upon this topic is the figure of the child, everything has to be done in his benefit. Maybe it is time to give a new step forward, nothing could be lost by studying it; on the contrary, many things might be gained.
     

