     It is an acknowledged truth that the world is changing - being it an evolution towards the perfect  welfare state, or a retrospection concerning past mistakes - ; society, a relevant part of this so-called world, also evolutes : everything is deeply studied, and the most important, everything is observed as part of an intermixed "tree" ( there are multiple links between things seen before as independent). One of this several connections has been recently noticed in the wide topic of crime and punishment. Formerly, a person was judged according to the deed he or she had committed; it was just a matter of good or evil. Nowadays, this two terms just represents an abtract idea, a criminal must be looked at as influenced by many factors (biological, genetics, circumstancial,...). One of the most important factors is the mental one, and here is where the interconnection is more clearly relevant, in the shape of criminology or psico-criminology ( the study of a criminal in relation with his social environment, and from a psychologic perspective). In this essay I will not pretend to be a specialized criminologist, but simply state my personal opinion about a controversial topic: to my mind, psychopaths must be judged as mental distorted men, never as ordinary criminals.
     
      To get into the discussion part of the essay, I consider indispensable to have a narrow general notion of what a psychopath means. Psychopathy is considered a personality disorder, particularly of the type borderline (a distortion of the emotional features and behaviour of an individual). The disagreement of including it into the range of mental illnesses or not is still under observance, so I will not focus on this aspect (as it is quite a scientific question which requires a great deal of study and competence in the topic). A psychopath is characterized for not having any sense of responsability - including within this a sense of remorse, grief or anything of the kind. Narcissist, selfish, self-confident, manipulative are adjectives asociated to this sickness. On the other hand, they are usually nice, attentive, gallant, people you feel inclined to trust in, etc. That is what makes them more dangerous, the fact that they do not seem what they are. To psychopaths, social or institutional rules are just simple barriers which unable them to reach their objectives; that is why they are doutblessly inclined to surmount them, with no reflection about the consequences of their acts. Nevertheless, the most impressive feature of a psychopath is his or her lack of empathy: it is really shocking for normal sane people to hear how a psychopath cannot feel regret or remorse after committing an imputable deed. They are incapable of socialize with their similars. However, they have a quite high grade of frustration and reputation, which combines with their high level of self-confidence. Taking all this into account, I think the reader now may understand some arguments I will expose to defend my posture against imputing a psychopath as if he or she were an ordinary criminal.
     
     Psychopathy is not a disorder which unables the individual to live, that is to say, these people suffering from psychopathy do not experience any pain at all, nor any unhealthy fit or breakdown; they can have a perfect life: marrying, having a job, having children,... That is one of the reasons some people use to refuse the idea of treating them as sick: their life is apparently normal. However, as I said, it is "apparently" normal; if any of us could deepen into the mind of a psychopath, we would see there are some traits and features which are not likely as those sane people have. In a higher or lower level we all tend to care for people, to feel remorse if we have done something bad, or to be preventive towards what people would feel about our acts. Opposite to this, Psychopaths look at people as mere objects, they care for themselves and can get no empathy with any other human beings - not even with their own social environment (family, friends, lovers,...). They can kill or rape and, for example, get the next day to work or on a trip being totally free of guilt or remorse. The word "free" is what best describes a psychopath, he or she is <Q> <R> . It is all a <Q> <R> .
     
      Related to this idea is the argument many people use to not separate the two natures of a psychopath: they say this mental illness is a consequence of the evolution of society as it is today. People carry anti-social patterns; technology development, as well as the appearance of new social forms or behaviours, have created an anti-social self-confident individual who only cares for his or her own benefit although he or she had to damage other people in the way to achieve it. Books and films as "American Psycho" or the figure of Hannibal Lecter in "the Silence of the Lambs" have contributed to this image of the anti-social well-bred psychopath who seeks his own pleasure by killing other people, or had to do it in order to get what he really wants. My personal view somehow agrees with this idea: I think this recently born society has created a new kind of psychopath which did not exist in the past, but the fact that psychopathy - at least psychopathic behaviours- had been observed before throughout history leads me to consider it more as a mental disease than as a mere result of nowadays way of living. Old names as Manuel Blanco Romasanta in Spain or the Marquis of Sade in France - or even Don Juan Tenorio in his relationships with women <R>  - are living facts that psychopathy existed in past times. They were considered as "human devils", evil or even dirty minds who curiously share some of the features current psychopaths are charged with.
     
     There is an interesting detail to have in mind when we talk of criminal psychopaths: in the moment of the offence, the invidual do have the notion that he or she is committing a bad deed. They know that they are killing, or raping, or maybe just robbing. This is the argument the general law uses to condemn a psychopath with the total responsability. According to Vicente Garrido <R> , there are three stadiums of responsability: The total responsalibility which punishes the "mentally handicapped" as if he were normal; the extenuated responsability which understands the act as "abnormal", so the punishment is extenuated; and finally the total lack of responsability, in which the "mental handicapped" is exent of any responsability concerning the crime. Psychopaths are charged under the "total responsability", as the courts consider them capable of understanding the illegal nature of their acts. As far as I am concerned, I do not totally agree with this resolution, since though psychopaths are concience of what they have done, they are irremediably determined by their mental factors, and so inclined to committ these evil deeds.  Although he is legally responsible for he knows the law,  morally he lacks of emotional capacity and so, of guilt <R> .
     
     Moreover, it depends on the personality of the individual to commit a crime or not. Not all psychopaths are criminal, there are many cases out of the delinquence area. A recent survey estimate the porcentage of psychopaths in society as one per cent, so maybe throughout one's life a person will meet an average of one psychopath out of ten people. The objective of a psychopath is not obligatory the seek of death, it depends on the personality of the individual: An ambitious psychopath will do anything on his reach to get his final pleasure - even killing if necessary - ; whereas a conformist psychopath with a simple objective would never get to that point (this I will call the superficial personality). What makes them both suffer from psychopathy is that they will do anything they are able to to get there -  being it killing, or simply transgressing the rules of the company in which they work, for instance - , and have no human emotional answer to what they have done in the way (this I will name as the inner personality) . This fact of separation between their  superficial personality and their inner personality evidences the sick status of psychopaths; and the notion that at least one of the two coincides (the inner personality -  corresponding to their psycopathic state) is what proves that both individuals suffers from this illness.
     
     As a conclusion, I will close this essay by re-stating my opinion that psychopaths are mental disturbed people and deserve the treatment corresponding to this insane group of individuals. They are aware of their crimes, they surely intended to do it, and so they deserve the correct punishment according to that; nevertheless, this punishment has nothing to do with those applied to ordinary criminals (as statistics show psychopaths are likely to relapse into what they have been used to do). Let me paraphrase before finishing up a quotation made by Hannibal Lecter in "the Silence of the Lambs" which may make the reader think about the argument I have been trying to refuse, and get his own conclusions: <Q> . Take it as you prefer. 
     
     
