     Contrary to what many people might think, religion is not on its way to extinguishing. In fact, there are some places in which the number of faithful people has increased - instead of the routine decrease we have been suggested by the media - or simply maintains. As it is said: <Q> <R> .  Moreover, there is no one clear movement direction: if people once believed all religions would finally get mixed into one perfect evoluted denomination, now it may be observed their differences are getting extremely marked. Nevertheless, the question I propose in this essay is one of utility; apart from statistics and numbers, is religion something still useful or needed in our nowadays society? I have recollected and analysed some different views on the topic and reached a final conclusion: religiosity is not helpful today, at least as it used to help formerly.

     The first arguments I will discuss are those which affirm religion is not only helpless, but harmful for the individual or society. Concerning the own individual, many people admit religion helps alienation, that is to say, those possessing a religious feeling are somehow losing their individuality and identity as human beings.  <Q> <R> . People projects unto an infinite better world so that they are sleepy in their real finite world: <Q> <R> . To my mind, it is a quite logical point of view, intelligent philosophers supported it - as Marx or Schopenhauer -, but I really think it worked for those times (late 19th century and early 20th century). Nowadays religious feeling is more and more something set within the own individual, people is less worried to observe religious dogmas or laws, so that there is no more mixture between one's spiritual world and his superficial state.
     
     In this sense of disturbing society, it is fair to admit religion is not supposed to support social development (I say "supposed" because I think it should serve to this purpose, but unfortunately it does not). There are famous examples of this conservative attitude throughout history: Galileo's attacks because he claimed the Earth was rounded, or the oppositions towards Darwin's theory of the ev0lution <R> . Currently, It is quite noticeable the fact that Catholic Church forbids the use of contraceptives, thus allowing sexual diseases as even AIDS to creep in developed societies, or make them be the death cause for many people in undeveloped countries. As it seems to me, religion goes a step backwards from other social branches: they do not accept progress unless there is no more room to doubt. However, being one of the most supported social mechanisms, it should serve also to be a knowledge resource; it should help people improve their life conditions, in spite of being so focused on their own personal benefits as social groups.

     The final argument in this fragment of the essay deals with the direct harm religion has caused and still is causing on the world. Voltaire once admitted that <Q> , which somehow agrees with the view some people have. Just opening a history book, we all can realise the great amount of conflicts or wars that have been caused by religion; it can be still observe the trace of religion in some current terrorist attacks as 9/11 plane blow on New York or 3/11 train bombings on Madrid. Racism, sexism and homophobia are some qualities - or vices, better said - attributed to religious people:  Ku Klux Clan was an organization self-named catholic, women in Muslim countries are totally undermined by men claiming religion thus requires it, and the opposition to homosexual rights are some examples of why those concepts are linked to religiosity to many people. As far as I am concerned, I cannot do anything more than repeat what I said in the paragraph above: religion should undoubtly improve people conditions, and so far they do not comply to it, it is not helpful at all.

     Nevertheless, there are some perspectives supporting the existence and remaining of religion until our days. According to Émile Durkheim, religion unites society: it is an expression of social cohesion, the reflection of people. He evidences this fact stating how many different religions exist over the world; the less complex a society is, the less complex is its religion, whereas developed societies create or develop more complex religions (this may be seen comparing aborigines' beliefs with occidental social-divided religions). Contrary to Marx's belief of an alienation caused by religiosity, Durkheim admits religion is an answer to the disindividualization of mankind. However, I think this perspective has nothing to do with religion in itself, that is to say, this social unity Durkheim talks about could be made under any other social arm which has nothing to do with religion; so it is valid as far as it deals with religion in a superficial way, however the essence of it cannot be defended under this position. The balance is still inclining towards the "against" side.

     There is also a position which considers religion helpful in the sense that it carries out charitable works. Fostering children, helping undeveloped countries, fighting against poverty are measures taken by Churches around the world to make it a better place. Many people states were it not for these humanitarian works performed by Churches, few people would give their hands to it. Conformist people need some kind of stir to start worrying about those who are not as lucky as them, and it is religion which supposedly makes it. It is my duty to admit it is a really valuable work: it is hard to be a missionary in an undeveloped nation helping poor and sick people, while that person could be sat comfortably watching television. However, there are many non-religious humanitarian organizations which also care for those people. Moreover, quotations like the next one I am going to transcribe show how at least Catholic Church, is willing to give up its charitable jobs in order to defend a conservative moral law not based on empirical truth: <Q> <R> .

     Finally, the last argument I am going to display and discuss is the one which I consider makes more sense, apart from being the more rational and scientific. It admits religion has greatly served people all over the world throughout history, but as long as the gaps it used to fill have been progressively covered by other mechanisms as science, humanistic ethics or art <R> , religion is now finally useless. Just reflect upon the disappearance of mythology: it happened when all the phenomena it used to explained were finally observed through other methods (simple things as sunshine, the rain or the night were described as being caused by Gods, instead of nature itself): <Q> <R> . The persistence of religion as a major source of information is then out of place, as Nietzsche claims <Q> . Some people even see this persistence of religion as a feigned blindness of individuals which do not bear change. As I said at the beginning of the paragraph, it seems to me this idea is the one firmly based on true evidence, and because of that it would be hardly refused by anyone.

     As a conclusion to this essay, let me summarize the points I have looked at. To the question wether religion is still helpful nowadays or not, we got several arguments pro and against: people pro-religion focus on the charity Churches usually carry out, and in a spiritual level they tend to highlight the social unity caused by religion. However, to my opinion this two ideas do not give much weigh, at least as the against arguments do. Many people, including famous philosophers as Marx or Schopenhauer, considers religion is harmful both to the individual himself and to society in general. Finally, the reader may find the idea of the "out of fashion" religion, which means it has been overcome by other branches as science, ethics or arts. My future prediction on this topic might be that religion will basicly be reduced to one's inner world; no more Churches, priests, or any of the kind, but our inner feeling or faith.  

	

