    As is well-known, the birth rate in our country has decreased considerably in    the last decades. The incorporation of women into the working world seems    to be one of the most important reasons that have provoked this decline. In    addition, there are several other problems that are affecting motherhood    nowadays such as the difficulties of changing the society `s way of thinking    in order to accept this new women 's situation, the sacrifices that have to be made in the process of upbringing children, or just economical problems,  what usually makes the difficulties of being mother worse. In this essay I  will discuss the problems I have already mentioned that concern    contemporary mothers.      To begin with, what seems to be the main cause that influences the law rates of motherhood in present times is the incorporation of women into the working world. This new role of women in society has supposed a big change. In the past only men worked out of their homes and they were the ones that earn money for their necessities, while women stayed at home taking care of their children and doing domestic labours. Nowadays the women `s situation is even more difficult than before. Most of them go to work out and have only little time to care about their homes. Some people argue, this is one of the most important problems for the contemporary    mother. They believe that women have advanced a lot achieving    responsibilities `equality between men and themselves in terms of having a    remunerated job outside their homes. In addition, they believe that working    out takes a lot of time and they defend that women would not be able to    bring up their children alone if they had them while being working out.    However, other people think that working out should not disturb motherhood    since there are half day jobs that could be useful for mothers who have to    take care of their children. These jobs take only four or six hours of the day,  so there should be enough time left to do domestic labours and care about    their children. Other people feel what is better in each case depends on the    individual situation that has a lot to do with the economical situation of  each    one.      What for the majority of people is the second most important problem for    the contemporary mother is the economical situation, which has a lot to do    with the incorporation of women into the working world. There are some    people that are the opinion that father and mother have the need of working    out because their family `s economy needs the incomes of them both. But    they feel sometimes it is hard to find a well-paid half-day job. What they    mean with this is that there are not half-day jobs for any single working    sector. For example, it would be difficult for a woman who has studied to be    a teacher to find a half-day job in a school. Furthermore, another reason that    could be argued is that there would be cases in which more money would be  needed, so that both, woman and man, have to work out in full-time jobs. On    the contrary, there are other people who do not believe that economy is one    of the main problems for the contemporary mother. They feel that women in    ancient times had many children and they did have still less economical    resources than nowadays. Besides, they support this argument saying that    nowadays there are economical help from the state to the families. However,    it could be argued this help of course exists, but it might be probably not    enough and in the majority of cases it is only for families up to three    children, so women have to collaborate in their homes `s economy.      Another problem for contemporary mothers is that our society has been    influenced by a male-chauvinist way of thinking for many years. This makes    the search of an "appropriate" partner more difficult. The meaning of    "appropriate" partner is for most people, a man that shares with the woman    all her duties facing up the difficulties they have to overcome. It seems    logical that doing this together would make the woman `s work much easier    because she might feel reinforced with her partner 's support. However,    some people find it difficult to get a good partner because there are men    nowadays that do not still accept the new role of women in society. They do    not understand the role of women in the working world and some of them,    most of all the ones that live in accommodated economical situations, find    that it is not necessary for their wives to work out. This kind of men think    that they are not obliged to work out, so if they are doing so is because they    want to. From this particular point of view, working out should not be a    problem since women have chosen it, so these men prefer not to help them.    In contrast to this opinion there are people who feel that choosing the correct    partner is not as difficult as other people say. They believe the only think    that women should take into account when choosing a partner is that they are    comprehensive with their situations and will help them, for example, sharing    domestic labours and bringing their children up together. However, other    people might say this is not so easy because the only way to avoid this    problem is trying to change this male-chauvinist society educating the new    generations from values such as respect and equality between men and    women.      One of the problems for contemporary mothers that did not exist some years    ago is divorce or splitting up of the couple. These men with closed minds    that do not accept the new women 's role in our society create what for some    people is a new problem for mothers. This people feel that some mothers    had been in love with their husbands but after a period of time they are not    anymore, they have opened their eyes and do not want to do what their    husbands or partners tell them anymore. That is why they decide to get    divorced, but this is from the point of view of many people, a very difficult    process. Children 's custody has to be divided and most of times it is the    mother who gets it. Some mothers find themselves alone in the complicated    process of upbringing their children. Sometimes they even do not receive the    economical quantity the judge has ordered the children 's father to give    them, what hardly influences their home 's economy. But here again a    different point of view could be found. There is people who might argue that    there are cases in which getting divorced would not be dramatic at all.    Husband and wife could reach an agreement in a civilized way and they    could start a new life that does not influence badly the children 's    upbringing. A more sensible point of view is that children would have to be    educated by their parents together, but there are cases where this seems    impossible because parents cannot stand each other. In these cases divorce    would be the best thing parents can do in order to avoid children 's suffering.      The last problem that has to be taken into account when talking about    contemporary mothers has to do with what motherhood itself involves, that    is, having children. Some people argue that sometimes children are not    exactly what mothers expect, either because of mental or physical illnesses    or because they are just problematic children. Other people believe that    mothers would not have to expect anything from their children, and they do    not feel it would be a problem to have a child different from the others in a    way. The most reasonable point of view in this aspect is the one of those    who thinks that talking about children it is too extreme to generalize. These    people feel that of course there is nowadays specialized help for families    with problematic children, anybody is able to go to the psychologist or other    professionals that can help them solving their problems or having an easier    life. However, sometimes one has to wait a lot of time until this help    becomes effective because there are many people waiting for it. Other times    this help is not free and families have to do a very big economical effort to   face it. In these cases, the situation of women that are single in the    upbringing of their children gets worse because many of them do not have    enough resources to fight for their children.      To conclude, there are several different problems that have to be considered    in order to help contemporary mothers. In this essay I have discussed some    of them from different points of view. As we have seen, it is difficult to    decide whether they have to be taken into account as social problems or not.    What is definitely true is that each single situation is a very different one and    something should be done in order to help mothers in our country, because    as many of them say, to bring a child to life is the most beautiful experience    in life. 
