 Nowadays more and more immigrants are coming to our country for different reasons.   In Spain, immigrants may register in their municipality or residence to gain access to   health care and social protection, regardless of their legal status. However, a number of   immigrants are not registered because they are unaware of the process, they fear   enforcement authorities access to database, or their municipal government rejects their   registration <R> . This   mixture of races in which we are living is provoking that racism increases in some   cases. Racism is commonly defined as a belief where inherent biological differences   among the various human races determine cultural or individual achievement, with the   affirmation that one's own race is superior and has the right to rule others. There are   differences in treatment of people on the basis of characteristics which may be classified  as racial, including skin colour and place of birth <R>   In this essay, I will try to show different points of view about immigration in Spain and   I will argue that the current situation in Spain needs to be changed in various ways.      In first place, some people think that immigration is fully necessary in Spain. They   believe there are some works that Spanish people do not want to do but need to be done.   Specially hard works such as field labours or building are those in which the majority of   hand-workers are immigrants. This is the case, for example, of the strawberry   recollection in Murcia, where more than 80% per cent of the workers are immigrants   <R> . Another reason why most of the workers in these sectors   are immigrants is, from the point of view of these people, because they are temporary  jobs. This means that they have a determined duration, for example the strawberry   recollection takes place only in a season of the year while in the building sector the   duration of the job depends on what is being built. That they are not stabile jobs is one   of the reasons why Spanish people do not want them. Moreover, for some of these jobs   it is not necessary for immigrants to have their papers in order, so these are the only   jobs in which illegal immigrants can work. Furthermore, these people feel that   immigrants are necessary in our country because they increase the birth rate in Spain.       In second place, other people think that foreigners should be free to immigrate wherever   they want. They believe that it has to be very difficult for immigrants to take the   decision of leaving their native country, so these people feel that if they have decided to   immigrate leaving their home and possibly their families, it must be for very strong   reasons. From the point of view of these people, foreigners that immigrate, do it only to   look for a better life, to earn money and send it back to their native lands and that is   why we have to receive them with solidarity and humanity. These people argue that in   ancient times many of our Spanish ancestors immigrate to other countries when Spain   was living difficult times of economical and social crisis in order to improve their lives   and to solve their families' situations. So we must do the same as other countries did   with Spanish immigrants in the past and accept everyone who comes to survive in our   country without racial discrimination.      In third place, there are others that believe in a world with no frontiers. For these people   everybody is a member of the same community which is the whole world. They feel   everybody is equal and no places are better than others as well as no-one is better than   other one. They are the opinion that everyone should be free to travel around the world   and to choose a place to live without giving explanations to no-one because nobody   belongs to nowhere. For these people neither economical reasons nor social ones are   needed to immigrate, everybody has the right to do it and that is the reason itself. They   believe there should not be papers that legalize an individual because they feel we are   legal since we are born and we all have the same rights, either if we are white people   born in Spain or black people born in Africa we have the right to choose where to live.   Furthermore these people condemn any act of racism or xenophobia because one of   their principles is that they do not admit there are different races, they believe we are all   the same race, the human one, and from this point of view no racism is possible.      In contrast to those that are completely in favour of immigration and condemn any kind   of racism are the ones that are in favour of a political system that regulate immigration   strictly in our country. These people do not think that everybody is able to travel around   the world choosing where to stay. They feel that if someone is born somewhere is for   some determined reason. They believe that neither everyone is equal nor everyplace is   the same and they do not believe that thinking in that way can be considered as a racist   behaviour. Moreover, they think that the word "racist" is used by immigrants for their   own interests because some of them accuse others to be racist when they feel   endangered in some ways. These people accept immigration because they assume it is   impossible to avoid it, but they accept it only in some cases. For them the perfect   situation would be that immigrants only immigrate to the different countries when they   are needed. For example, if there are 200.000 jobs, only 200.000 immigrants qualified   for them are allowed to come into the country where they are needed. These people feel   that in this way criminality would be avoided because all immigrants in Spain would   have a job and earn money, so they would not need to rob, etc.      Furthermore there is a group of people that are radically against immigration. They do   not understand it nor accept it. They basically do not accept anyone different to them   and they use very often scientific racism to reinforce their discriminatory behaviour.   This refers to the use of science to justify and support racist believes. The use of science   to justify racist believes goes back at least to the early 18th century, though it gained   most of its influence in the mid-19th century (http://www.ohchr.org/issues/racism). This   people believe that there are a lot of differences between the various races, as L.S.B   Leakey stated "Indeed I would be inclined to suggest that however great may be the   physical differences between such races as the European and the Negro, the mental and   psychological differences are greater still" (The progress and Evolution of Man in   Africa, Oxford University Press, 1961). Also many centuries ago, some people have   argued that <Q> <R> . These extreme racist behaviour   against immigrants in our country often ends in violent behaviours because this group of   people feel that being an inferior race almost not considered human, they are able only   to stay in their native countries taking care of their fields because this is the only reason   why they are born and they are not prepared to live In a society like ours.      My opinion about this issue is that none of these groups of people are completely right   nor completely wrong. It is true that the legal foreign-born population in our country has   quadrupled in less than a decade, rising from approximately 500.000 in 1995 to two   million in 2004 <R> , and I   believe that evaluating these numbers a new regularization process is necessary. There   are nowadays a lot of immigrants coming into our country while others are still waiting   to regulate their situation in Spain. From my point of view, these "illegal" immigrants   that are not able to work in Spain due to their irregular situation are the ones that will   try to get money against legality. That is why I think it is not productive to leave all   immigrants enter into our country, but not because of racist believes that are usually   based in the individual racial prejudice, that refers to pre-formed personal opinions   about individuals based on their perceived racial heritage <R> . With this I do not mind to avoid immigration but to control it, so that   everybody who is coming to live in Spain is able to work here and have a life like the   rest of the Spanish population. I believe that if all immigrants in Spain worked to   improve their lives and tried to learn our language and culture, racism would descend   because people would see they are honest people that have been unlucky and only want   to improve their fates. However, I feel human beings are human beings after all and we   all have the same rights and the same obligations. I think everybody should have the   opportunity to improve their situation, so there should be a consensus between employer   organizations, immigrants associations and service providers of the rich countries to   create a climate of cooperation with both, immigrants and the countries that are more   affected by immigration, like Spain in this particular case.    To sum up, we have seen very different points of view concerning immigration and   other issues that it involves like for example racism. Neither people for or against   immigration nor people for or against racism have the absolute truth. They have their   own personal opinion based on the current situation that we are living in our country   and that sometimes provokes racist behaviours due to the massive number of   immigrants that are coming into Spain. In conclusion, to avoid this and other possible   economical and social problems a new regularization process would be needed.                                      
