    Violence against women is increasing in our country day by day. In 2005, 61 women died due to  this kind of violence that has become one of the most important problems in our society. This   year that has not finished yet, 62 women have found death in hands of their husbands or   partners. These mortal victims only show the most extreme point of what is known as domestic   violence. Beside these tragic deaths, hundreds of women are suffering physical and                     psychological mistreatments nowadays in Spain. Many women that are still alive are being victims   of any kind of discrimination that can end in gender violence and perhaps with their lives. Should   we allow this serious social problem to keep on existing? In this essay I will expose the issue of   violence against women and I will try to find some solutions to avoid this problem that is being one   of the main protagonists in nowadays' society.     One of the main reasons that can provoke physical or psychological mistreatment are, from my   point of view, not wanted marriages. Of course, mistreatments in this situation are not justified   but it is one of the most common situations that ends in any kind of mistreatment to the woman  by her own husband. We must analyse the reason why people get married against their willing.  Nowadays it is not very common but of course it was some generations ago. The main reason for  a woman to marry a man that she did not love was to be pregnant of him. In the past, and most   of all in small villages, it was very bad seen to bring a baby to life without being married. In other  cases, women did not love their husbands but they had to marry for economical reasons. In this   kind of marriages love did not exist since the beginning, so they were going to fail in the future.  It is true that some of these unions can finally have a happy ending if man and woman when   knowing each other better find that they like each other,  but in many cases they do not, so   they continue living together, they will frequently get in conflict and perhaps they can become  violent. Nowadays the number of unwilled marriages is more reduced than in the past, but there   are still women that are being obliged to get married. To avoid this violent situations, we must   make women aware that nowadays things have changed and they do not have to live dominated  by a man only because they are pregnant or because they do not have money. It is true that is  hard to change the minds of women that have been living almost their whole life dominated by   a man, but there are specialists that can help them to make it possible.     Another important reason that usually provokes domestic violence is a male chauvinist way of  thinking that is mainly produced by a sexist society. For many years, society has been based on   the rights of men and obligations of women. Because of that, it was still very bad seen, for  example, if a woman asked for getting divorced in order to begin a new life away from the one   who was her husband when it was legalized. But the same situation seemed less horrible if it was   wanted by the man. The main problem of a sexist society is, form my point of view, that men   feel superior than women and they think that gives them the right to do with their wives what  they want to. In my opinion, many men that mistreat their wives feel they are the ones that   control them, the ones who have power and they feel inferior when realising that women   have become individuals independent of men, socially and economically, since they play a role in   society as important as men do. This male chauvinist way of thinking should be eradicated in   future generations in order to avoid violence against women. I believe this purpose can only be  real if we begin educating next generations from equality and respect between men and women  since they are little children. But this is not so easy, since there will be always women that suffer  from this kind of violence, so children will continue hearing about it and perhaps when adults,   will act this way. Although domestic violence will always be there, the numbers of victims can be   reduced if we all teach the new generations from values such as respect, equality and tolerance.     But in order to change a sexist society, it is necessary to take into account the legal system of   this society. Talking about laws, a new one called " Ley Orgánica de Medidas de Protección   Integral contra la Violencia de Género " has been approved in Spain in December 2004. This  is the first step to help victims of domestic violence, but there are some aspects of this law that  should be improved. For example, it does not talk about the victims compensation, not only   economical but psychological. Psychological damage is very difficult to repair, in some cases it   takes a long time and needs the professional help of specialized people.  Another aspect that    must be improved in this Spanish law is that it does not contemplate illegal immigrant women's   rights. The number of immigrant women is increasing nowadays in our country, so it is important   to protect them either, even if they have not legalized their situations at the moment when they   are suffering any kind of violence. From my point of view, laws should be revised and actualized.   That will cost time and money but it is necessary to applied them properly and to help the   victims in their recovery.     Changing the legal system partly and creating new laws if necessary in order to protect victims  of domestic violence will encourage them to denounce their horrible situations. Many women do   not denounce the physical or psychological mistreatments they are suffering because they are   afraid of their husbands' reactions. Many of them think that if they denounce their partners and  get divorced, they will kill them. So, they continue suffering domestic violence because they are  afraid. On the one hand, with new laws they will perhaps feel more protected and denounce   their husbands to the police. But on the other hand women will need more help and support to  feel powerful enough to overcome their fear and break with their situations, because many   women actually think that the Spanish legal system does not function as it should. It is known   that in our country there are many criminals that are living freely because their  prison sentences  have been reduced after they have had good behaviour while serving part of their punishment   or have promised not to do it again, what of course is not true in many cases. So, generally the   fear victims have is justified because they do not feel protected from new violent acts. To avoid   this fear of being an impediment for the victims to denounce, not only rules should be revised,  in my opinion, specific police corps should be created in order to work investigating these cases  and protecting the victims.     By achieving this purpose, victims' fear will little by little disappear and they will feel ready  to denounce the violence they are suffering day after day. But in my opinion, it is very important  that victims of domestic violence do not feel alone in their particular fight. For this reason,   associations to help the victims play a very important role since they make the victims feel more  protected. These associations offer the victims psychological help to overcome the pain that   makes them feel devaluated. Because it is very difficult to give all the victims official protection,  governments should invest more money in this kind of associations, so that they have more   economical resources to help the victims, such as paying for them good lawyers or giving them a   place to live if they have nowhere to go. Even having the support of these associations, it will  be very difficult for the victims to loose their fear and try to start a new life, but another thing  which is very useful of this associations is that there, victims will meet other women that had   suffer the same as they have. Listening to other mistreated women that have overcome their   bad experiences in the past will make the victims feel understood and will encourage them to   recover their illusion for life.     To sum up, we have seen that violence against women is a very complex issue that can be   caused by many reasons which are not easy to solve. To avoid the high number of victims of   domestic violence it is necessary that we all collaborate, everyone is able to do it, for example in   educating the new generations showing them that women must be respected the same as men   do, or encouraging the victims to denounce their situations if we are aware of them. Only with   everybody's help it is possible to end with one of the main causes for violent deaths in our   country. In my opinion, it will take many years to avoid domestic violence, but with a better legal   system and our collaboration we will make it happen.
