     Do citizens have the right to possess and carry guns? Should they be restricted only to   the security forces? Furthermore, should they be completely erased from our society?   The constitution of the United States of America, which was written in 1787, establishes   in its Second Amendment the right of every citizen to have and to carry guns. Ever   since, the issue of restricting the use of guns has been a constant in the U.S. In this   essay  I will try to explain the reasons for which, in my opinion, guns should be banned   in any society and normal citizens should not have the right to purchase or to carry   guns.     First of all, I would like to argue that, when we feel ourselves offended by someone or   when we suffer an attack, we always have the temptation of taking the law into our own   hands. Normally, the idea of counterattacking just remains in our thoughts. In my   opinion, if we had a gun in our possession, the possibilities of going ahead with this   counterattack, that is of shooting someone, would be highly increased. So we rely on the   security forces in order to be protected from any attack. It has often been argued by   those favourable to gun possession that it is one's duty and responsibility to defend   yourself and your people and that, as concerned and responsible citizens, we just can't   sit and wait for the police to defend us. Of course one could argue just as the saying   goes: "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth". Personally I think that one of the basic   principles of any society is the respect for the law and the reliance on the State's   security forces as guardians of our freedom and our basic rights. In my opinion they are   the only ones that should be allowed to carry guns and it is their role as guardians of   people's freedom and rights what enables them to do so.     One of the peak moments of this debate came after the events that took place in 1999    at the Columbine High School in Colorado, when two students shot dead 13 other   students and then killed themselves. It is a fact that the guns and ammunition they used   in the shooting were bought in a gun store. It can be argued that these two guys would   have committed the crime whether guns were legal or not, they just would have had to   go to the black market. My intention is to argue that, if guns had been banned and had   not been available at a nearby gun store, they probably would still have been able to get   hold of the guns but it certainly would have been more difficult for them to do so.     Another recent case that I would like to point out is that of the "Washington Sniper"   who, in the year 2002, killed 10 people and wounded seriously another three in   Washington D.C. Those that defend the right to have guns, leaded by the National Rifle   Association (NRA) and their slogan "Guns don't kill people, people kill people", claim   that these are cases of people that would kill whether they had a gun or not, they claim   that they would use knives or any other kind of weapon. In my opinion, this may be true   in some cases but, in the majority of cases, it is the access to guns what produces the   crimes.     To support my opinion, I would like to give some statistics. It is estimated that in the   U.S there are around 200 million guns in private hands, one million of which are   estimated to be in the hands of high school students. In 1996, an estimated 14.000   murders were committed with guns, and 5.500 of the victims were between 15 and   24 years old. In the year 2000, according to estimations by the FBI, 15.517 murders   were committed, the 66% of which were committed by guns. So I think it is reasonable   to conclude that there is a clear connection between the number of guns in private hands   and the number of gun-crimes commited.     My personal opinion is that a severe ban concerning guns in the U.S would help to   reduce these numbers. Similar measures have already been adopted elsewhere, in the   U.K for instance. On march the 13th 1996, a man named Thomas Hamilton murdered 16   young kids and their teacher at a primary school in Dunblane, Scotland. Afterwards he   shot himself. Immediately, several proposals were made in order to ban all handguns   except 22-caliber target pistols. The law was approved in february 1997 and it was   amended in november of the same year in order to extend the ban to all handguns.   Previous to the approval of the law, an organisation called The Gun Control Network   was created with the objectives of achieving stricter controls on any kind of guns and   obtaining gun registers at a national scale. As a result of this, three months after the   Dunblane massacre, 23.000 guns and 700.000 rounds of ammunition were handed in to   the authorities. Today, the U.K has a total and complete ban on handguns and some of   the world's strictest laws on guns.     In opposition to these measures, one could say that not only guns kill people. Lots of   people get killed in car accidents, or are killed by drunken drivers, and no one has   proposed to ban cars because of this. There are also people that are stabbed to death and   there is no ban on knives; moreover, we can buy a knife in almost every supermarket. It   could be argued that many objects that we regard as harmless could be used with the   purpose of killing someone. For example, if we hit someone with a fire extinguisher in   his head, we might kill him. So why should we ban only guns and not, for instance, fire   extinguishers? My argument is that, whereas other objects such as the ones I have   mentioned serve certain purposes such as a means of transport in the case of a car or   putting out fires in the case of fire extinguishers and can be misused by human beings,   in the case of guns they serve the exact purpose for which they have been made: to kill   people. Of course many people claim that the purpose of guns is to go hunting, not to   kill people but, seriously speaking, no one goes hunting with a 9 millimeter Parabellum   or with a Magnum 44.     Taking a look at the data I have provided so far, in my opinion it would seem   reasonable that guns should be completely banned and erased from our societies. But is   this possible? It seems to me that the answer to this question is "no" and I will give   arguments to explain why.      The wholesale value of guns manufactured in the U.S in 1997 totalled more than $900   million. The value of hanguns manufactured that year totalled $344 million, while the   value of rifles and shotguns totalled $565 million. The value of ammunition   manufactured totalled $430 million. The combined wholesale value of both   manufactured guns and ammunition in 1997 was more than $1.3 billion. Another   argument that I would like to put forward is that between 1998 and 2001, the U.S,   France and the U.K obtained, by selling guns to developing countries, more money than   the one they officially employed to help these countries develop themselves. Moreover,   the five permanent members of the Security Council of the United Nations, that is the   U.S, the U.K, France, Russia and China, are responsible for the 88% of gun exports.   Considering these data, it seems to me that there are some huge economic interests   having to do with guns and that banning them would not be possible from the economic   point of view.     To sum up, I have tried to show that self-protection is not a valid argument to justify   the possession of guns and that the security forces are the only ones who should be   allowed to carry guns in order to protect us. I have shown the connection between   the access to guns and their possession and the actual commitment of crimes and I have   also given some examples of gun-related crimes and some statistics concerning these   crimes. I have also provided an example of a gun banning measure that was adopted in   the U.K and I have explained why guns should be prohibited. Finally I have explained   that, from my point of view, guns will never disappear from our societies due to the   huge amount of money that the arms industry moves.     
