							
      
      
       Developed countries like USA, UK and Spain are just a few examples of the so called first world that are receiving massive arrivals of immigrants and that is causing a big concern among its citizens. Spain has suffered a big change in which our present society has passed from having almost no immigrants to have aproximately a third of them. This drastic change has been so important and in such a short period of time, that it is one of the issues that most worry spaniards above many others, such as those of terrorism or housing. However, although it could turn out to be very interesting to prove how we have come to this present day situation, in this essay, I am just going to discuss the different points of view and opinions that can be motivated by this topic among Spanish people and also about those countries which share a very similar situation like us. 
      If we take as an example countries such as USA, UK and Spain we can see, that the general tendency in all of them, is to think that the number of immigrants is very high: 
      In USA  most of American people believe that the number immigrants is too large: <Q> <R> . One of the reasons why people is probably against a very large number of immigrants is that  illegal immigration produces a significant number of costs in government expenses such as in education, criminal justice or medical care. Even though the illegal ones make little use of welfare, from which they do not have right to benefit. On the other hand, is reasonable say that we should help others that live in worst conditions than us in their countries of origin, because we would do they same if we were in their situation, we will also try to look for a better future. 
      In Britain, Danny Sriskandarajah, a migration expert at the Institute for Public Policy Research said: <Q>  Britain is taking in 1,500 immigrants a day: Sir Andrew Green, chairman of Migrationwatch, which campaigns against mass immigration, said: <Q> . I think that one of the reasons why people is so concerned about immigration is that, they believe that the government is lacking control of the people who is entering Britain and that is not good. It is important to limit the number of immigrants so that the situation of the people coming in is controlled, and people from Britain, or anywhere else, do not  see their quality of life threatened. Meanwhile the government keeps saying that they do not have anything to worry about, that it is all very benefitial. Immigration is fundamentally motivated to come in by the government demand in the economy for workers. When the economy accelerates, so does the inflow of immigrants; when it slows, so does immigration.
      In Spain, there has been a very high increase in the number of immigrants, specially last year: <Q> . A balance given by the Spanish Secretary of State for Alien status it was proved so:  <Q> <R> . The arrival of immigration in the last ten years is due to two economical principles: the lack of people in Spain to cover the job demand and the atraction that the most dinamic regions provoke. Some people can say that this increase can be considered as something that was meant  to happen sooner or later, because if we compare the number of immigrants with those of our European neighbouring countries just a decade ago, we seemed to be at the very back of them. On the other hand, it is reasonable to argue, that it is also important to require a very strict control over our frontiers, otherwise, we will not stop having an overflow of new arrivals, and because of this, no one will be able to control if they ever leave Spain afterwards. This way the immigration situation can get out of our hands.
      
      Many people believe that immigration can be very good for a country. <Q> <R> . I am going to explain the possible reasons why immigration can be good for a country:
       Acording to this view, immigration can be good for a country because it can help to solve demographic problems. Ben Wattenberg, an analyst at the American Enterprise Institute, thinks that <Q> <R> . In most of developed countries population is getting older and immigrants can help a country to fill those gaps in jobs retirees are leaving behind. In Spain Moroccans are the ones who are more job-demanding, followed by Ecuadorians and Colombians. It has also helped that  <Q> <R> 
      The number of people that are subsidiaries of Social Security has significantly risen is because: Immigrants' wages help the State to fill the gap of people who has stopped paying the taxes because of retirement. In Spain the colective which has more afilliates to the Social Security are the Moroccan Community, followed by Ecuadorians, Colombians and Romanians. But Mr. Wattenberg and other pro-immigration activists are getting a sharp challenge from Steven Camarota of the Center of Immigration Studies in Washington. In his view, immigration <Q> <R> . On the other hand, as a large research shows, immigrants earn less money than the average native-born Americans, so as a consecuence of this, they pay less taxes, but paradoxically, they will receive a bigger pension in a future because the system provides a bigger pension to low-income workers than it does for higher-income workers.
      Another reason is that <Q> <R> . Miguel Sebastian points out that <Q> . On the other hand, some people would argue that because of immigration, there are a lot more manpower, and due to this, employers have so many people to chose from that, as a consequence, salaries are very low and contracts have a very high rate of temporality. Some others can say against that, that immigrants only do the jobs that we don't want to do. Still, if there were not so many of them, many people who work in constructing jobs, for example, could earn a lot more money and could work in better conditions, because employers would have fewer people to choose from.
	
      To continue, I will discuss different opinions why immigration has negative consequences:	
      One of the most important and negative things that immigration brings is criminality. The Director of the Center of Criminal Justice at Texas's Sam Houston State University (and an ex-NYPD detective), <R> , recently published an interesting study in which he said that crime is very frecuently linked to illegal immigration. This opinion is supported by many people. If we take as an example Spain, we have never had such a high number of incidents related with immigrant criminality as we have nowadays. Other people can say these people have to make a living in any possible way, and if they do not find jobs they have to do something to eat. But although this can be so, it can not be justified. Immigrant criminality focuses on three main issues: the amount of overall immigrant crime, which has alarmingly risen on recent years; the types of crimes commited, which are getting tougher and tougher everyday,  (there is a lot of people coming from eastern countries and they do not have scruples in killing anybody); and also, the position of immigrant communities in local organized crime markets, we can see that a lot of street gangs have flourished lately. In some places there is political presure to not to look at these crimes and circumstances because government does not really care as long as those immigrants are not causing a very huge stir. 
	Another reason is that it is very difficult for these people to integrate in our society: <Q> . He also pointed out <Q> . The Prime Minister said this because he mentioned in his speech the bomb attacks in which 52 commuters died. The attacks that took place in London's public transport network last year were carried out by four Islamic extremist suicide bombers, three of them Britons of Pakistani origin. This  prompted a debate about how  Britain's ethnic communities were integrated. On the one hand we can see that it is very important for these communities to integrate in order to promote that such so awfull things do not to happen again. To live in tolerance is a basic requirement, they cannot let racists or extremist destroy this. As a positive thing in their favor, it can be said  that it is very difficult for them to integrate because they do not have access to better jobs, or to prosper in an economical or social way, many times they are discriminated  due to the lack of education that exist in many cases. 
      Another consequence that  immigration can provoke is that Spanish citizes can see their Social Security subsidies be reduced. <Q> . Spanish low or middle classes pulation can see that immigrants receive most of the grants and subsidies that the State is given to poor people, when here exists many people in need as well. So government should be carefull to distribute in an equal and balanced way the money that they gather through taxes, if they do not want population to be alarmed because of immigration.
       Spain has had to ask for help in order to control too much immigration <Q> <R> . This cannot be considered a very reasonable point of view, because when Spanish government initiated the regularization process, Spain not only did not asked for permission to other European countries to start that process, but also overlooked European advise to not to it, because of the consequences that that could provoke. It created a "calling effect" process. Many immigrants seing that many of people of their own countries made possible to be legally in Spain, are trying to get here massively with the hope to make that dream come true. <Q> <R> . Many of them think that it is better to die trying, than to return to poverty, which is very sad, because most of them will only find poverty when they arrive here. It is also very difficult to return this people to their origin countries, because most of them come without documents, and they cannot know which country they should give them back. 
      So, then to conclude, in this essay, I have tried to show a general view of the situation of immigration. I have dealt with how this issue brings positive and at the same time negative things, and how due to the growing and sometimes excesive number of people coming nowadays, it is necessary stablish certain limits for the wealfare of everybody. At the same time we need to supportive with those who had to leave everything behind in quest of a better future. Considering all these points it might be reasonable to expect the government to adopt a new policy from which we can all be benefited and find an equilibrium.
