      For over many centuries and generations women have been living in a disadvantageous position in respect to men. Women have always been at the back of them, men being in charge and in control of everything, that is because women were not believed to have the same intellectual capacities as them. Women have been having to fight very hard to try to get into an equal position with them, but still today, even when our intellectual capacities have been proved to be the same, we are still living in an very disadvantageous situation. In this essay, I will present and analyse some points of view about the social differences between men and women, and I will argue about why I think women are, in many ways, discriminated in the 21st century.
      
      Women are discriminated in many ways in our society, this paragraph proves this: <Q>  <R> . In my opinion, women can be discriminated in their working market place, physically and at home.
      
      Women are specially discriminated in the working market place: Firstly, it of everybody's knowledge that when a woman applies for an interview, she can be rejected for that position if she is planning to form a family or if she has kids. Women can be asked questions very frequently about their private life, such as "are you married?" "Are you planning to have kids in a near future?". Many people think that employers have the right to know if that woman is going to be as productive as their male counterparts, if she is going to take a maternity leave and they are going to need to hire someone else to occupy her possition. Because of this, they will have to pay two salaries instead of one. But I think those questions must not be asked because any woman who can be interested in a job position, will not say that she is planning to form a family, because she knows that that job will not be for her, but most of all, because those things should not interfere when applying for a job. We are supposed to be living in an equal society in which we are told to have the same rights as men. On the other hand, it is true that sometimes women have it slightly easier when applying for some positions, because there are certain jobs in which society demands their presence, for example in many traditional manly professions, such the army, the 


police, the civil guard, and women have a number of places only reserved for 
them. But then, it is also true, that because it has been like an imposition of our  "egalitarian" society to have a number of women in those professions, many men working there, reject women and try to make life as hard as possible for them so that they abandon them.
      Secondly, women usually earn less money even when the work done by  them is the same. <Q> <R> . Some people can say that because she a lot younger than his predecessor and perhaps a lot more inexperienced, it could be justified that she was paid less. One of the main arguments that some people can use, specially employers, for paying less money is that we still have fixed on us the believe that men are the usually the family-head, and therefore, he should earn more, whereas working women are very often seen as the secondary source of income in many homes. I believe that if she was doing the same kind of job and, most importantly, with the same effectiveness there is no other reason why the money earned by both should be different. And most importantly, I strongly believe, that psicollogically men reject women earning more than them because for many of them we will always be inferior, and if not inferior, at least we should be only be in charge of the household.
      Thirdly, it is very difficult for women to access powerful positions generally and traditionally occupied by men. <Q> <R> . According to this newspaper article it can be seen that the situation of women occupying powerfull positions has not changed much, there are very few women still in Britain boardrooms and courts. I believe that this an unfair situation, besides, it is not the first time that I have heard people saying that when women have, every now and then, a powerful position, they are less good bosses, because they are not so stable, and it is difficult for them to separate her emotions. I believe that men do not want to lose the superiority with which they play, they will always want to be in control of everything, they want to be above women, this way, they can have everything under control. They preffer to have women depending on them, this way the will maintain order. 

      And to continue, women employments, are in general, usually worse and with a higher rate of temporality than the masculine ones. In my view, there is a very big number of women working in precarious jobs, for example, in cleaning jobs, or at customer service positions, or as secretaries (always under the directions of the clever boss, which a man of course). It can be argued that there are many men working on constructing jobs for example, on the other hand as well. All this causes some women to feel stressed and other important symptoms that can make their health be damaged. <Q> <R> 

      Women are also discriminated physically: a woman key to success is to look like a top model, young and beautiful. Women have to be slaves of their 
physical appearance otherwise men will not be interested on them. In other 
times, women could only expect to get married, and that, depended a lot on her 
looks rather than in her intelligence. Still today, we see the typical old and awful millionaire who has a young and extremely beautifull lady by his side. At that this for almost everybody accepted, whereas if it is the other way around, it is not. In my opinion, this is an incredible thing that still happens today, although fortunately, things are changing little by little, and we can see that now women are receiving a better education, and they have access to a wider variety of studies and through them, they can obtain better jobs and be independent if they want to.
      
      Women can also be discriminated at home with the housework: most  women have two jobs, the job outside home (which is the paid one) and the job inside their home (which is the unpaid one). After finishing with their paid shift, they have to start with the unpaid one when they get home. The general believe is that this has to be so. People believe that if women choose to work outside their homes, it is because they want to, and they have to assume that they will have to manage their homes as well. I believe that there are still a lot of things to be done, but  it is true, that many men are also collaborating, specially young ones, who have received another type of education. On the other hand, nowadays many women work because they need the money to keep the family 
Economy  <Q> <R>.

	

      To conclude, I think that we are pretending to live in an egalitarian society, but the truth is, that we are not, as we can see it in the examples I have mentioned before. In my opinion, it is true that we have prospered a lot in recent years, that women have now the option to be independent, something that was imposible to think about not long time ago. It is true that  institutions are trying to collaborate with it, but their efforts does not seem to be enough, otherwise, we would not find these situations. My predictions are that women have a still to fight a lot, and that they have a very long way to go until they reach to be in equality with men.








