
      
      Nobody said that being a contemporary mother was easy. Becoming a mother is time consuming, very demanding and also emotionally and psychologically very rewarding but very often also very tiring and confusing. Today's mothers have to face an everyday challenge to see this babies grow and to make their working schedules and her role as a wife succeed. I have chosen to deal with specific topic because, in my opoinion, today's mums are not valued as much as they should, they get up everyday being in charge of their home, their babies and their jobs, not asking anything in return but just to be appreciated. In this essay, I intend to explain what, in my view, are the main problems which today's mothers have to deal with in their everyday's life.
      I am going to describe now the situation that mothers, who have just had a baby, have in Spain, and their maternity leave employment benefits, which in my opinion, should be really improved. Spanish women can, after those first sixteen weeks, choose to have twenty weeks more at a part time shift, if she reaches an agreement with their employer. The father can also chose this option, with morning or afternoon shift, to take care of the baby. After the maternityleave, mothers can also be away from their jobs one hour to feed their babies, they can divide that time into two half an hour parts, or either, take half an hour before starting their shift and another half at the end. Before the baby has become three years old a excedencia can be asked for, with the right to keep their job position. If the child is less than six years old, a reduction of the working shift can be asked for, obviously with proportional reduction of the salary. Everything that I have just mentioned is very important, and it is a good way to begin, but I believe, that that is not enough; for example, in many cases, mothers cannot reduce their shifts because they need money in order to pay the mortgage, or to pay a baby sitter while they are working, plus besides jobs are very demanding and ask for flexibility, when a mother can be everything except flexible when it comes to taking care of little babies.
Today's mothers have to think of what to do with their babies while they are working, because it seems to be clear for everybody, except for the goberment, that a baby cannot be left alone at home. It has to be looked after and  that means, that mothers have to find other options, if they cannot take the kids with them.  They can either pay for a kinder garden, which means an extra quite emormous money expense, or either pay for a baby sitter, which also means more money expense, or, at the end, leave the babies with their grandparents, who became a sort of modern age baby sitters..when they shouldn't really have to. I belive that at a certain age, grandparents should be enjoying that period of their life. But sometimes there isn't another option, and, in most of the cases, they do it very pleasantly. I think that employers should do something like having kinder gardens in their own working places, so that women, can  have their babies near by in a most economical and beneficial way for them. But, if we take into account, the cutting expenses policies that most companies have, it is not very likely that that will happen in a near,or not so near a future. I also think that our goberment should be a lot more economically helpful with families with kids, in order to promote a higher birth rate.
      As a result of all these, children education can be abandoned. We hear on television that many kids are left alone in front of the tv, watching all sort of things that no one has any control about. The cartoons watched by kids are very violent, if parents had more time to spend with their kids, another type of education could probably be taught. Teachers cannot and shouldn't substitute  a father or a mother to teach educational values , they are there to transmit other type of  knowledge about other topics. 
      Among one of the most frecuent complaints that working moms do, we can find one this type: This question was being made to psychologist Marc Gelkopf by a working mom.This mother found herself in a position in which she has to deal with two of the most common  problems that working mom's have face. Firstly, that she doesn't have any free time for herself and,  secondly, her husband's incomprenhesion. It can be argued, in the first case, for example, that she could stop working or that she could find a part time job and by this, she could have more time for herself. But, in general, mothers who work need the money to keep the family's economy, or, in other cases, it is important for many women to have a job and not to be husband economically dependant. Secondly, it is very important for anyone, not just working moms, to have their partners suport in that or in other aspects of life.
      Another common complaint could be this one, In general, I believe, that when a man finishes his working day, he gets home, and basically, expect, not to do the shopping, he expects to have dinner ready, the house clean, the clothes washed and iron, and kids, if possible, ready to go to sleep, so that they not make a lot of noise because they want to relax after such hard day at work. In some cases, I think, they expect to have a servant. I am not saying that every family has this situation, many men are changing their habbits and helping their wives, but there are many others, who are not that fortunate, and have to beging a new working shift when they get home after they have finished with their paid job, they have to begin with the unpaid one, plus dedicate some time to their kids by giving them dinner, helping them with their homework from shool and getting them ready to go to sleep. 
      So then, to conclude, this essay has considered why life for a contemporaray mother is not as easy as it seems. And  that is why, if we look upon the birth rate in this country, one can realize  that  there is got to be something happening to women and their parnerts, because they don't  have kids like they use to. Nowadays, it is difficult to find a three children family,  considered to be a numerous family, whereas some time ago, a few decades behind,  women were used to have five, six or sesen babies as a common thing. Based o what I have said, I don't have any expectations that this is going to get any better, because or goberment doensn't want to see want is happening, or may be they can see it, but it just better  to keep doing as if they don't. A possible solution could be to return to tradional values, in which women, only stayed at home talking care of their  babies at home, or maybe we could change roles for once, and let men stay at home talking care of babies, or let us be, for once, only  the working ones. I personally believe that things will stay this way, because women will not sacrifice their newly found paid working role and, of course, as I mentioned before, being a mother is very sacrificing but, also, at the same time, very rewarding and nothing can be more fullfing.





