


Children's Rights are being violated not only in the Third World but also in the First
World. Children's lack of protection has different reasons and the solutions are not still
very clear.

In our present society ten million children many of them under five, continue dying
every year due to causes that could have been prevented. The most unfortunate are
trapped in child labour and prostitution. In my view, this situation generates so many
economic benefits that governments don't seem to be very interested in giving
solutions, as I will try to show in this essay.





In many eastern countries of Asia and Africa sexual tourism is one of the most
important sources of incomes. I personally feel that this is the hardest way of child
exploitation because of the terrible physical and psychological effects it has on them.

A group of journalists from Informe Semanal, a Spanish TV programme, showed in a
documentary about prostitution in Thailand how a nine year old girl could have twenty
sexual encounters with different men. In spite of these proved facts, many Tour-

Operators in  developed countries are specialised in organising tours in countries in
Southeast Asia  where men may have sex with little children guaranteed.



Children are very interesting for enterprises. Children can do the same work as adults
without complain and being paid very little money. This is a powerful reason in my
view to employ children. According to UNICEF many children in Colombia work in
coal mines suffering inhuman conditions. The narrow corridors of the mines are ideal
for a child's size. They work with difficulties of breathing, carrying very heavy amounts
of coal in their backs and exposed to suffer injuries and lung illnesses.  To prevent this,
of  organisations such as UNICEF mainly, are trying to make public this terrible facts so
governments can do anything. On the other hand, many governments think that child
labour is caused by rich countries and they don't face the problem, so then it seems for
me a vicious circle really difficult to break.



Poverty provokes child exploitation. This seems to me quite logical as we have never
seen a rich child working, but the cause of this relationship is not so easy.  Poor
societies where no good health system exists, where education is not obligatory and
specially where the minimum wage is not fixed, derives in many families making their
children work to contribute to maintain the family's economy. In a large amount of
cases the responsible of this is the own government of the country. It is their
responsibility to fix the legal minimum wage for adults labour that can maintain a
family, according to Rosaline Costa, that belongs to the Justice and Peace Commission
of Bangladesh .Some countries such as in Kerala, a small state in India a reform in the
minimum wage  was implanted as well as the education established as obligatory . As a
consequence, child labour was diminished and the economy of the whole state as
improved.


The external debt is an indirect reason of child exploitation.  The International Monetary
Fund (IMF)  and the Wold Bank make have some programs for countries with external
debt. These organizations demand the workers to wok more,  to sell more and to
consume less to save money and pay the debt. This seems to be a good solution but to
me it means more wokers exploitation and a reduction in the investment in education
and health what inevitably leads to children explotation to produce more money and pay
the debt.



In conclusion, it's clear from my point of view that children exploitation has many
different causes and the solutions are in  some cases contradictory.  The amounts of
money that children prostitution generates for some countries and the facilities and
profits of employing children make the problem even more complex to eradicate. In
addition to this, poverty and the external debt contribute to raise the number of children
exploited.   I believe that the problem demands an implication in both parts, the First
and  the Third World to elaborate a plan including  firstly, and this is what in my view
developed countries should do, eliminate the external debt and modify the penal code so
the citizen that contributes to prostitution both in his/ her country and abroad goes to
prison without any kind of  bail. In the other hand, poor countries should fix the
minimum wage for adults and what is basic, to ban any kind of child labour or
exploitation. If measures are seriously taken, I think we can reach that children live as
children. If not, who knows what consequences and degradation we will have in the 

future with this inhuman way of  understanding life.












 
