
In the last 50 years there has been a revolution in the fields of medicine and technology. We hardly remember the times when some illnesses had no cure while today are under control. The combination of both scientific advances and technology development has leaded   into a huge revolution in the field of medicine that permits prevent and treat some illnesses such as some types of cancer and diabetes. Nowadays it is also possible to interrupt life in embryos and in some cases end up the suffering of a terminal patient.  The new methods recently discovered have generated a great controversy in which ethic and moral issues take part and play an important role in the medical investigations that are being carried on.  In this essay I will present and analyse the benefits of medical intervention on human life as well as I will state my own opinion on what I feel about the issue. 

One of the most polemic techniques used in medicine is said to be biotechnology, which according to Cambridge Dictionary is defined in a simple way to get started as <Q> <R>.  In other words, it consists on modifying the genes of animal and people with the purpose of working out the genomic origin of certain diseases. Powerful modern techniques are used to research the 5,000 single gene disorders which affect 2.5 million people or the major diseases which have a genetic factor, like heart disease, cancer, asthma, diabetes or Alzheimer's disease. Modern biotechnology is providing a better understanding of how our bodies work and can now offer real hope for conquering many previously incurable illnesses. Nowadays the use of stem cells seems to be becoming more and more important in these biomedical investigations.  According to Dr. Lauren Pecorino stem cells are absolutely interesting in research processes due to their special features: <Q> <R>.  The main clinical application of stem cells is as a source of donor cells to be used to replace cells in transplantation therapy. Stem cells can be obtained from several sources such as spare embryos (leftover embryos stored at fertility clinics that were not used by couples to have children), from created in vitro fertilization (artificially in the lab), cloned embryos, aborted foetuses in early development, umbilical cords, adult tissue or organs of living adults during surgery and also stem cells can be obtained from cadavers. On the other hand there are sectors that do no support stem cell research; some scientists are against these kinds of investigations. One of these researchers is Edmund D. Pellegrino, M. D. who opposes any system of research that is based on destruction of living human embryos. Pellegrino points that <Q> <R>.  Also anti-abortion groups, some religious groups, and conservative citizens support this position saying that using cells from embryos is immoral because it destroys life <R>.  Although I believe  the use of embryos for research mustn't be widely generalize to the extent of experimenting new possibilities such as cloning human beings, which is possible with biotechnology, my personal opinion is that the rational use under  appropriate regulation and legislation of these medical scientific techniques can  help more than causing  damage in society.  I consider it's important to take into account some moral issues in order to establish an edge, however, I strongly feel that the future of science can not be compromised for some conservative, old-fashioned beliefs that , in my view  may slow down important achievements in medicine profitable for the entire humanity.

Another issue that widely encourages ethical debate is abortion. There are several different positions concerning abortion. Some people claim that the interruption of the development of an embryo towards an individual should be banned in all cases arguing that it is a killing itself of a human individual. These are naturally religious and conservative's views. Some others appear to support abortion in cases in which it is risky for the mother to have the baby and also in case that the foetus is anomalous or has a serious deficiency.  The groups in favour of abortion are mostly humanitarian groups the have their own point of view, according to National Abortion Campaign: <Q> <R> . Although abortion is not legal in many countries, I personally feel that abortion should be permitted since there are quite a lot non-desired pregnancies, especially among young teenagers who I definitely think are neither emotionally nor economically prepared for such a change, and whose babies would be taken cared by their grandmothers. In addition to this, I strongly believe that in extreme cases such as rape, abortion should be carried out necessarily if the woman desires it without caring about any of the ethical considerations that some conservative governments and the Catholic Church point out. Furthermore, I believe that the right of women to control their own fertility is a fundamental human right, and what is more, I feel that women will not be able to take a full and equal part in the society until they can decide for themselves whether and when to have children. 
Lastly, euthanasia seems to be one of the most controversial topics faced by the world today. People hold different views towards euthanasia, some are in favour whilst some are against it. It's important to distinguish among passive euthanasia, active euthanasia and the double-effect to understand the diverse points of view concerning the matter. According to Ars Médica, passive euthanasia refers to the situation when a patient whose illness has no cure, refuses to receive a treatment or to carry on with a treatment and decides to die. According to the same source, active euthanasia consists on leading a patient to die for mercy or compassion, but this way of acting is illegal and has consequences. Lastly, another form of euthanasia is the double-effect that consists on applying some drugs to the patient to reduce the pain. Such drugs cause the patient's death after some time taking them. The most used drug is morphine. In this case, the administration of drugs has no consequences or punishment for the person who helps the patient. In addition to this, people that are in favour of euthanasia argue that to die with dignity is to not extend the patient suffering when the diagnosis is not favourable,  there's no cure for his illness and the pain is unbearable. Those who support euthanasia claim that in these situations to die with medical help or even assisted suicide is reasonable, even it may be considered as an act of humanity <R>.  Any death with suffering is considered unworthy in nowadays society's mentality. According to the same source, defenders of euthanasia maintain that patients' autonomy should be respected. This refers to the patient's right to choose his own destiny. Pro-euthanasia activists also defend that the State would not apply any punishment to the person who helps the patient to die in case this last didn't have enough energy due to his illness to carry on suicide.  However some other people point that life is worthy in each instant itself by its intrinsic nature, and they also add that pain or suffer do not diminish dignity. <R>. According to the same source, euthanasia detractors claim that in case of extreme pain, patients are not in their own sense to say they want to die, and that this is due to their terrible pain, and what we have to ask ourselves is whether doctors are doing anything possible to diminish the patient's pain. Personally speaking, I'm in favour of euthanasia since I strongly believe in personal choices, even dealing with life and death. In my view, if a person cannot bear the pain and knows he's going to die earlier or latter because his illness has no cure, the best option would be let him choose and even help him if it is impossible for him to commit suicide due to his fragile health.
To summarize, there are many ways of medical intervention on life and death. All of them have provoked ethical and moral debate, such as the use of stem cells for research purposes, which some scientists support claiming that there are a great amount of advantages in these kind of experiments that will be profitable for the whole humanity while anti- stem cells research highlight the unmoral part of such investigations that involve the destruction of foetus in early development that would lead into a human individual. My personal opinion is that science needs sometimes to pass through moral questions in favour of medical development, so I support the use of stem cells as long as they are used in a rational manner and never for human cloning. Another of the issues that has generated ethical debate is abortion. Those who argue in favour of it claim that abortion is a personal choice, not a matter regulated by religion or conservative ideologies that don't take into account issues such as the economical situation of the mother, if she's emotionally ready to have a baby or even if she has been raped. Meanwhile, anti- abortion groups, mainly religious ones, claim that abortion is the same as killing and every creature of God has the right to live, and it's not the mother's business to decide. I personally feel completely in favour of abortion because it is a complex issue to be ruled by religious convictions but more a personal choice. Finally, euthanasia provokes diverse reactions, some of them are in favour of it, such as those who defend the patient's autonomy and his freedom to choose dying with dignity while others claim that euthanasia is more or less the same as killing, though the patient wants to die. Furthermore, they argue that a patient that suffers a terrible pain is not in his right sense when he cries for dying. My opinion concerning the matter is absolutely in favour of euthanasia without any punishment for the person who helps the ill to die. I believe that, the decision of dying comes after long meditation powerful reasons and must be respected and taken into consideration.





