Homosexual marriage has been one of the most controversial issues in recent decades. The progress of society gives now the possibility of two men or two women getting married in some countries around the world. These unions are something common nowadays and there is evidence of this. In Spain, there were 1275 homosexual marriages in 2005 <R> . This happened just after the Spanish Government approved the law of homosexual marriage on 30th December of 2004. By now, 2219 unions of the same sex have taken place in Spain until October of the recent year <R> . However, this legalization is not desired by some part of the population, who cannot bear seeing these couples together and who have a different opinion about this kind of relationships because they see them as something unnatural and cannot accept them. In spite of this, there are also those who consider the opportunities given to them as something worth discussing. In this essay I will discuss some of the main viewpoints dealing with the possibility of homosexual marriage and children adoption.

To begin with, many people believe that prohibiting them consists on a violation of human rights, a violation of their freedom and also it is an act of discrimination. One of the reasons why they can be not permitted is because some people see them as a sin. <Q> <R> . The general feeling is that the decision of homosexual marriage should not be seen from a religious point of view. Everyone knows what s/he needs in life and his/her likings so they are free to decide how to live without caring about principles that maybe are not important for them. 

Some people might also claim that <Q> <R>  or, for example, one case in the United States: <Q> <R> . According to them, they only see their relations as something unthinkable and their marriages as a religious ritual. They simply don't care about the feelings of the couple and the personal commitment that this means. In addition, people against homosexual marriage could consider that <Q> <R> . It could be claimed that those who think this are conservative people using the Church as an excuse to the real thoughts that they have about this issue such as: being <Q>  (The real reasons people oppose gay marriage).

It could be also claimed that homosexual couples can, as well as the rest of the population, have the same advantages as heterosexual ones <Q> <R> . There is also the case when a medical urgency occurs, the most important person is the immediate familiar, the person who decides what to do is the husband/wife. This argument seems to make sense since they do not have to be discriminated from society just for a same-sex relation. It would be unfair that these couples wouldn't be able to have these benefits too. 

In spite of this, some people might argue that gay couples are unnatural and abnormal and that the typical or original marriage is that of a man and a woman because two men or two women together could be seen as a contradiction of marriage. This could be considered a realistic perspective due to the fact that only a man and a woman can pro-create but this is not completely true because adoption is another way to give birth to a child. And now, homosexual adoption is generally allowed in countries where homosexual marriage has been legalized. Most people seem to believe that homosexual marriage is declining the original one formed by a man and a woman. However, the rest could maintain that this isn't something new as heterosexual marriage has been declining for a long time with these high numbers of divorce throughout the world.
One of the most important arguments in favour of homosexual marriage is that adoption would increase. <Q> <R> . As they cannot have children naturally, the number of adoptions would be higher since they desire to create a family as any heterosexual couple. This point is rather convincing although it is possible that some people believe that <Q> <R>  because this situation can damage the mother's figure in the case of two men and the lack of the father's figure in the case of two women living together. <Q> <R> . And they also can state that it could be noticeable in the children's education.

According to what I have said before, there are several arguments in favour of homosexual adoption. Many people feel that society develops and new things are accepted. They argue that there is no need of closing, no need to see only one alternative, so that homosexual couples are the same as heterosexual ones and have the right to adopt children. This quotation explains it further: <Q> <R> .

Research suggests that <Q> <R> . That is what most people think, growing with homosexual parents will not determine the sexual orientation of the child. Living with homosexual parents has nothing to do with the likings of the child. Furthermore, it is apparently true that children brought up by homosexual parents receive the same education as the rest of the children or even better since the majority of such couples are known to be very responsible.

One of the most reasonable arguments in favour of homosexual adoption is that <Q> <R> . Many people would claim that the only way to defeat prejudice in the world is by the insertion of homosexual couples in society and allowing them to adopt children.

Some arguments against homosexual adoption are maintained, mostly by religious and conservative people. These people might argue that <Q> <R> . They might assure that homosexual couples cannot be a correct model to follow by their children because it is abnormal to see two men or women together that haven't got the possibility to procreate. This is also clearly understood with this quotation: <Q> <R> .

Another possible viewpoint against homosexual adoption is that as homophobic conduct is still present nowadays, maybe children adopted by these couples can suffer in the future or also can be ridiculed or insulted at school due to their situation. People who agree with this, maintain that the most important thing is to avoid these cases of homosexual adoption to preserve the child's physical and psychological integrity.

In addition to this, it might be persuasively pointed out that some people argue that gay adoption should be prohibited because of this statement: <Q> <R> . 

There are other viewpoints regarding this issue which are in the middle and depend basically on the difference between marriage and adoption. It could be argued that homosexual couples should have the possibility to get married because it is their choice and no union can be forbidden if two people love one another. However, these people can also feel that homosexual adoption shouldn't be permitted because the appropriate home environment is that of a man and a woman being the parents. These people generally maintain that children shouldn't be exposed to this kind of living as this could affect them and their sexual orientation in the future.

In conclusion, we can see that this is a controversial issue in all senses. There are many arguments both defending and condemning homosexual marriage and adoption. Some of them deal with the individual freedom of the individual to choose his/her likings, and others deal with the condition of seeing these marriages as a sin and these adoptions as something unthinkable going against nature. The arguments in favour appear more reasonable in terms of pluralism, since not everyone is religious. It might be also argued that homosexual unions are not accepted not only because of religion but also for being something unnatural.


