      In the past ten years society has witnessed a huge increase of violence against women. Nowadays, people are getting used to hear about another one murder in the news. The fact that in the last three years 193 women have been killed by their sentimental partners has brought up once again the issue of how this can be happening. In this essay I intend to put forward my opinion regarding to women's mistreatment and some of the solutions that should be taken to avoid more women dying in such a degrading way.

      From my point of view, violence against women is something intolerable and part of it comes from the male chauvinist society that has been established since a long time ago. I believe that women ended up accepting the role of inferiority and now still see the figure of the man as the one of the boss. It can be seen everywhere that sexism exists only by noticing that sometimes women have more difficulties when applying for a job up to losing it when having a baby. This is one of the reasons why the man is seen as the dominant person in the relationship and because of that he can adopt the position of being the one who can mistreat his couple if the case is given. However, there are those who think that it is not a real fact because there have been also cases in which men were killed by their wives or partners. Nevertheless, it appears to me that these have been minimal cases compared to the 59 murdered women in 2006, the 62 murdered in 2005 and the 72 murdered in 2004. My own opinion is that it is not a question of numbers but it is just that men are stronger than women and the majority of them support their mistreatment with different excuses.
      I strongly believe that men who mistreat their couples are in their mental fullness. They are usually jealous and possessive men and they do that just when they are out of control because a situation has overcome them and they don't know how to act.  So they decide to show all their anger by hitting the person near them and after that to regret what had happened and they have done. There are people who defend this conduct by saying that they maybe were under the consumption of alcoholic drinks or any kind of drugs or even sometimes that this person was mentally sick. I tend to believe that it does not exist any excuse to commit this horrible treatment and that nobody should be justified by saying such things.

      My opinion is also supported by the fact that the application of the penal code has many flaws. <Q> <R>. This quotation pretends to include a specific penal sanction when the person who mistreats a woman had a relation with her. It means that it is still not included and that is why there are <Q> <R> . Speaking personally, I feel that many measurements should be taken on the penal code in order to accelerate these trials and also thinking in a hard sentence for those committing ill-treatment. There are people who think that these measures are already taken and that there is the need of concentrating in another problems that are more important in our society. For my part, I consider violence against women one of the major problematic issues nowadays and I really feel that it should be taken more seriously by all the population including the police department to arrange more security for those women and the woman herself to trust in her principles and decide to report the aggression to the police.

      It seems to me that there is another important factor in this topic and it is the hesitation of some women when going to report an abuse from her partner. There are many cases in which women suffer from affective dependance syndrome. It is a specie of Stockholm syndrome because it leads the woman to justify and forgive her aggressor. They love their couples so much that they think their husbands will change and they feel like they are nothing without them in their lives. It is clearly explained in the next quotation: <Q> <R> . They are afraid because they think they are not safe and the aggressor can take reprisals against her or simply because they have no escape because they are mothers and cannot live on their own, with their own salary. However, some people may think that they live this way because they allow their sentimental partners to hit them and they don't try to fight them. I would maintain that they are weaker in both senses: physically and also psychologically because aggressions stay in their mind as something traumatical but they should try to make an effort and as I have said they have to report the abuse. In my view, the best method to become a strong woman is to assume things as they come and report the mistreatment as soon as possible. All of this hard situation will be healed by familiar support and a new view of the woman's possibilities.

      I personally believe that some solutions should be taken rapidly such as arranging the necessary changes in the penal code in order to  have a relation with the seriousness of the crimes commited to women. It could also be a good idea to gain the resources to edificate more first aid posts and recovery centres in order to attend mistreated women when having to run without help. Campaigns to be aware of violence against women would be useful directed towards society to help changing this mentality and to break with the topics that divide society in genres. The assignment of more policemen and civil guards to protect the victims is taking place nowadays but there should also be the guarantee of the teleassistant service in an effective way when help is needed by a defenceless woman. The most important of these measures is the immediate arrest of the aggressor that breaks the restraining order. However, we can still know about cases that break this order: <Q> <R> . In my opinion, I believe that it is unfair because this is one of the solutions that should be taken by justice, law should be stronger with these aggressors and the responsibility should not only be presented to women as to be alert but to take serious measures regarding this and try to change it into a more reliable solution.
      Speaking personally, I believe that the name given to this violence is inappropiated because there are differences between gender violence and domestic violence. This is explained here: <Q> <R> . It is clear that this kind of violence takes place in private environments where the woman usually ends up being subordinated to the man. However, despite this quotation, some people think that these definitions are the same and that both can be used alternatively without depending the case of violence. Nevertheless, my opinion of this is that they are different terms and that none of them should be used to refer to this mistreatment to women. In order not to fall into sexism, it should be simply called violence against women without denoting terms such as genre or domestic.

      To conclude, I have tried to show that from whatever perspective I consider this issue, violence against women cannot be justified: one of the most important reasons is because it goes against women's rights and another one is because it is an humiliating and terrible act that is taking place throughout the world. However, I am convinced that in the near future, in spite of these approaches, a bigger part of the population will raise and come to a solution for this problem that is taking part in a violent and threatening society and that it is also taking so many lives every day.

