In our present society food and diet has been one of the most controversial issues during recent years. People have got used to follow the piece of advice of specialists in this topic and have decided to be on a diet or even to risk their lives in a surgery operation. However, some people prefer to eat as they have eaten before without caring about their weight as it is shown in these statistics: <Q> <R> . These two cases have brought up the issue of whether people should take any control on their diets or not. In this essay I would like to present some points of view regarding food, diet and possible eating illnesses and analyse them from a personal perspective on the topic.

To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of the decision of having a controlled diet and choosing calmly the food which is going to be eaten. Going on a healthy diet consists on "<Q> <R> . Many people believe that being on a diet is convenient because of the following reasons. First, the change of the body into one which would be fit and also would give a good-looking image. This is, following a series of rules diary, in the majority of cases, gives the satisfaction of seeing a better and stylized body. Second, the opportunity of not being overweight, but having a steady weight can be achieved by <Q>  that will help to <Q> <R> . Third, the fact that being on a diet guarantees a healthier life and it clearly reduces the risk of heart disease and other possible chronic diseases such as obesity. Finally, the balanced organism you would have and the prevention of some possible digestive illnesses because the products that are selected for diets in general, are in their majority, vegetables, fruit and fish, and they are known for the good effects they produce on the body while being consumed. These arguments seem convincing, nevertheless, it depends on the willpower everyone has and their urge to improve. 

I personally believe that everybody should have a particular diet adjusted to the organism characteristics of each person. I strongly believe that diets are good in all the aspects: at the same time that you are losing weight, you are also feeling healthy and this motivates you to make some exercise. If people take this as a routine, they will be avoiding a lot of diseases such as the ones I have mentioned before. Moreover, brain disorders like Alzheimer and Parkinson that are considered irreversible can be treated with specific diets and develop with a satisfactory progress. <Q> <R> . My personal opinion of this, is that the majority of people that decide to be on a diet are those who suffer from obesity. People who are overweight are really in need of a diet that in the majority of cases helps them a lot. They lose huge quantities of kilograms and they are generally happy with the results of this. For my part, I feel that being on a diet is the best decision to keep people's weight balanced. If not, other measures should have to be taken such as liposuction surgery which is very dangerous. <Q> <R> . 

Some arguments against the decision of adopting a specific diet are probably maintained by people that do not have time enough. First, apart from the dedication and loss of time while preparing meals, one of the arguments against being on a diet is that the organism changes completely and its routine disappears rapidly being substituted by another one which is more strict. Second, the effort that has to be done to follow a diet day by day and the visit once a month to the endocrine to see if everything is right and whether to continue or not with the kind of diet assigned. The third and the most important disadvantage of being on a diet is the case of those who follow their own diet thinking it is the right one and the apparition of nutritional deficiencies. Due to this fact, they could fall into serious illnesses like anorexia and bulimia that have to be solved with psychological and psychiatric help. These arguments are rather persuasive, however, some people think that these are not reasons to turn down the idea of being on a diet. 

It seems to me that the loss of time is not an excuse to avoid being on a diet. If it is necessary for a person to lose weight immediately, time does not matter. It is true that the organism habits change in such a fast way that it can be worrying but, personally speaking, I think that despite these changes in the eating habits of a person, it is worth to be on a diet due to the good results that are going to come later. Regarding to the effort that has to be done, I tend to believe that although it is difficult, when time passes all this effort will be rewarded with a better figure and a healthier life. 

The most serious disadvantage of being on a diet is the third case I have mentioned above. There are people who follow their own diets without caring about the need of medical help. That is why they can fall into undernutrition which is explained clearly in this quotation: <Q> <R> . It appears to me that, in extreme cases, following a diet can be a serious risk. When a person becomes obssesed with the diet and does not want to eat just to avoid the rise of his/her weight, s/he can fall into eating disorders which are known to be hopeless incurable such as anorexia or bulimia. That is, these people see themselves as overweight though they are extremely thin. <R> . This can be shown by means of these statistics: <Q> <R> . 

However, there are other viewpoints regarding this issue which are in the middle. It could be said that having a particular diet and a specific way of eating is not totally good or bad. Generally, people who are happy with their bodies are those who believe this. They probably have a steady body and a balanced organism without any diet and that is why they do not care about this issue as they are not going to take advantage of following a diet. Personally, I would maintain that this is clearly understandable. People who are fit and happy with the way they eat are not in need of being on a diet. They can choose freely what to eat and they know how their bodies will react.

So then, we can see that there are many arguments both defending or rejecting the idea of being on a diet. Some of them deal with the advantages of changing into a fit body, getting a balanced weight, the guarantee of a healthy life, the energy that can be obtained and the equilibrated organism that can be reached. The arguments in favour appear more reasonable to me in terms of what the majority of people feel. It might be also argued that eating following some rules might provoke a waste of time, might oblige you to make an effort every day and, in extreme cases, it can exist the possibility of falling into serious illnesses like anorexia and bulimia. As an outcome, a balanced way of eating and being on a diet might be seen as a good idea because it could be the beginning of an important change in our bodies and the improvement of our organism as well as a good progress in chronic diseases.




