


The alarming and increasingly tendency of murdered women in hands of their husbands 

or partners and the court house's role in this particular aspect of this social problem  

involves a huge controversy between the violent behaviour and the victims who suffer 

these attacks. I intend to focus my essay on the scace measures of women 's security 

against their mistreaters and, how, in my view, punishments should be improved, rised 

or certainly fulfilled without exception.


Furthermore, I wish to explain what is considered violence and I'm going to provide 

several real people's experiences with factual arguments, the main causes and 

cosequences that provoke this kind of trasgression and try to add some possible 

solutions to this contemporary problem.

The violence against women is a matter faced society, and concern all sort of classes, 

cultures and people around the world. According to the United Nations, The Fourth 

World Confernce on Women met in China in September 1995, called Action for 

Equality, Development and Peace defined violence as a term that means any act of 

gender based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual, 

psychological harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or 

arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether ocurring in public or private life. I personally 

believe, that violence and abuse committing against women, it's a way of 

deshumanizing a person, which is sometimes inferior, and obviously vulnerable in one 

or more social affairs and it's a manner of placing the victims out of society instead of 

making them up by means of a socialization process, which includes self-respect, 

mutual respect and cooperation between womwn and men. The aim of this conference, 






is focusing on being aware of the causes and consequences in every form of violence 

and tend to overcome this kind of conduct, which is often tolerated or justified.

However, as I said before, violence is still seen as something familiar and conventional, 

especially in some of the poorest countries in the world, due to women are more 

excluded and constantly suffer inhuman, cruel and degrading treatment. Government 

and local forces point out and reply that is necessary and justifiable in such cases as 

alcoholism, housing problems or unemployment . I would stongly argue that I 

disagree with these kinds of responses, that support a male view and  make that a 

serious issue was considered banal, trivial or it has less importance that it really has. I 

maintain that violence against women in any form is a crime and must be punished and 

prosecuted.

In addition, in several African countries, for instance Etiopie, men have the right to 

correct women improper behaviour, stalking, bullying, slapping and verbal abusing their 

wifes or partners that err in a particular situation or circumstance. According to L.C.

(African men, to be more specific from  Sierra Leone), if a cow is not mistreated  it has 

always the same wrong behaviour , and the same statement is applied for women, 

helping to keep women in their place. This evidence shows that cultural background , 

beliefs and different practices contribute to gender based violence. Personally speaking, 

I think that nobody could allow their wife-partner feel humiliated or make them to 

follow some directrices which they consider correct, because there is no justification, far 

away the circumstances of mistreating, threatening  or abusing them psychologically, 

physically or publicly. 







Another relevant point is, that women represent a minorie that have not access to justice 

in Africa, I mean, because they are simply forced to accept domestic violence without 

judicial protection, so they are submitted to their husbands' criteria, which in a way 

supports the idea that women are a property of their husbands and they have to assume 

their husbands'decisions adapting and fitting their own deeds to a male vision, and they 

still suffer and admit this violent behaviour. In my view, love isn't supposed to hurt, 

harm or degradate, and even worse provoke mortal victims.

In contrast, Western society has a bigger  permiability or it is  supposed not to have any 

control  about women actions, decisions  or behavior, and they perform and represent a 

freer role. Women are seen equally able as men in every single scope. But, 

unrortunately, gender based violence is enormously increasing as researchs, news and 

the most important, facts which demonstrate and prove that are real situations. As a 

woman, I get indignant about this women's right vioaltion, in my opinion anyone could 

bound human rights and make a cause of discrimination a female condition considered 

as an example of inferior status. 

Pointing out, one third of women who had been abused by their partners had never told 

no one. Around 57 per cent of the women had suffererd injuries, only 13 per cent had 

received medical attention.On the other hand, there are some myths that perpetuates 

violence; firstly-women who dress provocatively are asking to be raped; secondly-

women enjoy men who are beating them because they like the excitement; thidly- 

women pretend that they have been mistreated or raped to achive something or because 

they need to be paid attention. 








These are some statements used to integrate violence and 

make them more and more common in our daliy life in our present society. It seems to 

be a good way of following and going on with this problem, but women need to uncover 

and encourage against this current fight. 

Undoubtedly, the amount of great cosequences and problems that domestic violence 

could carry, are still supported by different factors, both social and cultural could cause  

abuse and violence. But one of the most important and direct ones are health disorders.

The frequent symptoms they suffer should make us suspect that they are victims of 

violence, for instance, chronic complaints that have no obvious physical cause, male 

partners who are constantly controlling them, feel afraid of multiple situations and so 

on. The negative consequences of  are far beyond physical or psychological ones. 

Gender based violence reduce women's full participation in society. To me, this has a 

great social repercussion. Deprive women of performing an active role and limiting 

their power in social aspects is a complete fault. Human rights are striking to achive a 

legal, social, educational equally and violence or abuse is a manifestation of an extemist 

behaviour that doesn't let a sustained development of human dignity.

A key point in the essay that I wish to highlight is Goverment's, jurisprudence's and 

legal's role. In a deeper and concrete manner, the scarce measures of women's security 

that authority provides. One year ago, in Spain, Law against Gender based violence has 

passed to protect the victims efficiently. This law brings differents measures together to 

prevent mistreatements against women. 









It is a positive step to guarantee justice. In my opinion this is one of the achivement that 

lots of people are fight to, but most of the obtacles remain and there are still some gaps. 

Enforcement the laws that exist and pass new ones based on the areas of health,  

assistance and shelter and give more protagonism to police and security forces to take  

inmediate action and effective measures against mistreaters. Goverment and court house 

express their pride about this new law, not considering its faults as if there is no 

evidence of mistreatement there is no credibility to judge someone in this charge, so this 

is a dangerous stament, because in what degree have to be committed the abuse? 

Providing an example, Maria, a spanish citizien, who has been mistreated during several 

years,has denounced her ex-husband and the law hasn't give her official protection 

because there is no sign in her body of mistreatement, and only gives her a distance's 

restriction. Finally, Maria died in hands of her ex-husband . To avoid this, the Law has 

to put effective and harder measures that couldn't be surpassed in any way. 

There are several institutions which support and provide aid to women who suffer 

violent attacks and abuse. They show differents projects  about effective interventions 

and services and coordinate diverse reponses  to violence against women for criminal  


Justice, advocacy and victim groups. There is a  lot of useful information that women 

can take notes. One of them, is The Minnesota Center Against Violence established in 

1914, and another project online, called  Violence Against Woman on line resources 

that support legal action taken by women against mistreaters. To me, this is a good 









initiative that allow the victims know that they are not alone, that they have some help 

in some legal, social aspects ,they don't deserve what happened to them and many 

institutions that are able to aid them, giving them opportunities in any case. 

In conclusion and summing up, violence and abuse is not only a crime, it is a shame too, 

that we couldn't allow in any circumstances or events. In this essay I tend to develop 

some solutions to this problem in our present society,  that is not always in the surface 

and a lot of women suffer it in isolation, to know that they are going to have all the 

supports and help that they need and  everyone condemn violence. I  have tried to 

exemplify abuse with  real facts and situations around the world and make them up by 

her suffering in spite of these terrible experiences.  































  Bibliography.

All this information is taken from several webpages on the net, that are the followings:

Amnesty International 2006. Wonen in Spain: more rights, but obstacles remain. Httpp://web.amnesty.org/actforwomnen/dv-spain-100706-editorial-eng.Date accessed 31/10/06

National organization for women. Now and violence against women. Httpp://www.now.org/issues/violence/ Date accessed 31/10/06

National organization for women.Together we can stoptheviolence.httpp://www.now.org/issues/violence/stopviol.html  Date accessed 31/10/06

United Nations. 1995.Fourth Conference on women, Beijing 1995.ttpp://www.un.org/womenwatch/daw/beijing/platform/violence.htm Date accessed 31/10/06
 
USDOJ: office on Violence against women. Httpp://www.usdoj.gov/ovw/ Date accessed 31/10/06

USDOJ: President's family Justice Center Initiative. 2003. Httpp://www.usdoj. gov/ovw/pfjci.htm Date accessed 31/10/06

U.S. Department of justice. 1993-2004.Violence against women: Legislation and action. Htpp//www.4women.gov/violence/legislation/ Date accessed 31/10/06

U.S. Department of justice. 1993-2004.violence against women: Violence and mental health. Httpp://www.4women.gov/violence/mh/ Date accessed 31/10/06

U.S.Departmnet of justice.1993-2004.Violence against women. Ways to combat violence. Http://www.4women.gov/violence/combat. Date accessed 31/10/06




                                                                                         Laura Zapata García
                                                                                         Team number 5.
                                                                                         Essay 1.Draft 1
                                                                                        C77
 
                                                                                        













