      Teenage births definetely concern all stages of society. Having been a current and a daily deed in this specific cluster of people, many factors determine its presence as well as different sexual behaviours. In this essay, I intend to argue some causes that are shown by several researches which support various skilleds' opinions dealing with other further problems among this unfolding colective. However, there are so many perspectives to develop this essay, but, it will only consider teen births related to their sex education over traditions, costumes or habits. 

      Some researches suggest that <Q> <R>  According to this, the basis of a good or healthy sexual life should start at home, schools, institutions and through the media. Sexual development, personal relationships, affection and gender roles make these attitudes toward sex conditional on behaviour and future facts, so that is the importance to understand the complexities of sex. However, in some communities, sex is not seen as a natural - biological human process or a need, which involves certain responsibilities and values among the population because of, mainly, cultural differences, and furthermore the conception of having sex for a particular goal, to procreate. This evidence shows that traditional background, beliefs and different habits contribute to misunderstand sex and bring the society into taugh situations such as non desire pregnancies or diseases, especially in younger people. This is considered as a realistic and succesful viewpoint, how to understand sex and try to solve the main problems that result in erratic, conducts could allow everybody enjoy with sexuality.

      In many countries, for instance, African ones, sexual behaviour is still a taboo. This is due to the lack of information , beliefs, and values that don't help to clarify sexual roles or to stop teen births. A recent study indicates that, before 1995, black teens had the highest female birth rates. In 2004, rates per 1000 females ages 15 to 19 among black teens (63.1) were higher than rates among Indian teens (52.5), non- Hispanic white teens (26.7)  and Asian teens (17.3). But, in spite of this data, teen births in African countries have been descending as a  result of sexual education provided by institutions, organizations which aid to learn how to form responsible views on sex in practice, to become the contraception methods popular and the use of different campaigns to prevent unwanted pregnancies.  In contrast, african black teens are an important risk group because they have less financial support -African counties are submerging in poverty- than other teens around the world and they are more likely to need public assistance as well as they tend not to talk about contraception before sex and to use it, and are less likely to view pregnancy in a negative way due to their prejudices or culture. Although this viewpoint appears to be persuasive, it has certain weaknesses. First of all, both unwanted pregnancies and sexual diseases are the direct result of  irresponsible sexual conducts in many cases because of  the lack of information and  control about their own individuality -imposed marriages at an early age-. Many african youth don't know anything about sex and there are still some myths that consider sex  as something inmoral. To avoid this, people who concern, for instance, Social Issues and of course, the own families,  would have to promote  and reinforce the values of sex as natural, that forms part of the adult life and it is seen as something completely neccesary . And even more important, freer choice of marriage, love or sexuality, according to own preferences.  
      
      On the other hand, United States is a developed, wealthy country in which sexuality is significantly understanding as a positive view, provided school-based information and other sexual healthy measures, in addition to many programs that help to make an efficiently sex conception but, it has a high teen births rate. In a study published by The Journal of School Health (T. R. Jordan) almost all northamerican parents (94%) reported that they constantly talked with their children about sex. However, only 9% believe that most parents adequality communicated with their teens about sexuality. And 59% argued that they talked about basic reprodution, 55% about HIV or AIDS and 52% about what it means to be gay. This statistic seems rather shocking almost the half of the parents don't talk about sex in a propper way in the USA, and, diseases and pregnancies are relegated  to the latter position. Only a reduced minorie (9%) assume that their chattings are useful. It could be argued by Jordan that to prevent teen births and its consequencies (they often face the main responsibility of parenthood alone, they are generally unprepared for economical supports besides psychollogical and emotional changes), sexual education must start at home in a comprenhensive manner as a direct and effective strategy with a total involvement.

      In contrast, in United States, several campaings from 15 national organizations pay more attention to the Abstinence as a good initiative. The National Campaing to Prevent Teen Pregnancy in 2001 argued this program delays young people intercourse, doesn't increase the frequency of sexual intercourse and reduce the number of sexual partners teens have. This point is rather convincing, although abstinence is a little bit extreme, because sex implies a need that every single person has for a healthy sexual life and active intercourse are biological phenomena you can't repress, so this iniciative in those programs are not cosidered both efficient and realisable.

      Another aspect to highlight in this essay, acccording to this investigation,    called <R>  one in five (20%)  teen births occur to young women who have already had a baby . The statistic shows that is more probable to have a second birth among teen mothers who had a previous birth than teen females who haven't had a child before.In addition, in 2001, the more recent year of available data, displays that there are some differences by birth order, what it means, there were 35.7 births per 1000 females ages 15 to 19 who had never had a birth compared with 175.1 births  per 1000 females  ages to 15 to 19 who have already had one child. However, some people could consider this as a mere coincidence or chance, in spite of the information, and they strongly claim that everyone can have a child and the most important factor and what really determines  the situation  is the earlier age rather than having or not a baby before.   
Furthemore, this same investigation tells that there are some differences by marital status too, married teens have higher birth rates than unmarried teens. Providing an example, there were 283.6 births per 1000 married females between 15 to 19 years old compared with 35.4 unmarried females, although both rates have been dramatically dropped in the last years. Moreover, it could be said that the majority of births occur outside marriage, only 18% occur within the marriage, but most births result in this union. Some would argue that  a quick solution to this unexpected circumstance is the marriage, because it's difficult to support psychollogical, economical and social pressures alone, and, by this practice, which it's supposed to involve equality at all levels, the responsibilities are shared.   
      
      Finally, according to The National Coalition to Support Sexuality Education as some statistics show, most parents (57%) don't talk with their teens about masturbation. Since civilization began, it has been a practice  through the time implies certain negative connotations. By making an exemplification, in the Roman period sexuality was seen as a liberal expression everybody should have in a way, they perfectly talk and know about masturbation and it was seen  standard and neccesary to know how own body works and reacts to sexual stimula. But now, many people claim that is inmoral and  supposed to be a perturbation. Indeed, many youth think about this as an embarrasing, shameless or  humiliating act and this point is rather confusing, because masturbation could implie for a developed sense of our own perception of the body as well as being more confident to practice sex, in addition to communicate more about intercourses with the partners, and masturbation and abstinence seem to be opposites. 
. 
      
      To conclude with, in the whole essay it has been argued and developed teenagers births analysed from the sexual education point of view, and what are the main causes that concern this fact from a cultural and historical perspective. Parents' roles determine teenagers' sexual behavior as well as the circumstances they are surrounded by. In addition, some researches point out that communication and a propperly understanding between parents and sons is fundamental and basicly needed for having a good sexual life without any risks and without any further consequence, but,  there are some myths that are still alive and obstract the younger population to enjoy from a safer sexual life.      
      
	














