It's usually spread that appearance, success and good-looking deal with the fact of being thin in our present society. Different factors, for instance social pressions impose this ideal cannon and carry different outcomes such as eating disorders. Anorexia, beyond being a problem with eating is a serious illness that produced the same physical result as starvation. In this essay, I wish to develope from several points of view the reasons of bad eating habits providing my own perspective and possible solutions to overcome this daily disease.

According to Transcultural Mental Health Care (the children's hospital at Westmead) anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder in wich people have an intense fear of putting on weight. They severely limit the amount of food they eat to reduce their body weight to an unhealthy low level. Anorexia means "lost of appetite for nervous reasons" but in fact you don't loose your appetite if you have anorexia, you just don't allow yourself to satisfy your appetite.

In my view, anorexia is a kind of phobia of being fat that brings you a strict restriction with food, that it is in a way a thing that you can control to surpass different tremors or, even different problems that you suffer in a specific situation. It is the manner to organize a daily unhealthy behaviour which you think that could carry you to the full happiness because of the fact of  having the wished appearance.

The cause of anorexia isn't fully understood at present. It could occur by a combination of emotional, physical and social factors and different ones could be developed for each person. Certain behavioural patterns are common in people who suffer the illness, such as low self-esteem, perfectinism, a need to please others, mood problems, especially depression and mental health problems according to several psychologists <R> . Furthermore health problems are the direct response of suffering anorexia, excludin the weight loss, other symptons could be; absent periods in women, delayed puberty in both men and women, a loss of  sexual interest and potency, thinning hair on the head, feeling cold all the time, difficulty sleeping, constipation and abdominal pain, fainting spells, low blood pressure and a  slow heartbeat. I agree with Mental Health Care of placing anorexia as a mental illness instead of a question of appearance. It is true that is a continual obsession of being thin, but due to the fact that is a unknown illness and it deals much more with the fact that the person who suffers it has a distortioned perfception of herself/himself, obsesives and compulsives disorders and secretives behaviours that are widely dissaprove, in the most cases is needed to be treated by mental assisters. 

The majority of people who suffer the illness is because of the external influence which receive through the media, mass and the frequent images of having a perfect body which involves in the same level having success. According to Pasarela Cibeles <R> , focusing on models, a new Law has been passed last year in which don't allow parade the models under an established weight (18 per cent of corporal mass). The fact is that lots of models couldn't finish the processions because they dont get the minimum etsablished pattern by the organization and many of them were suspended. Cibeles argue that is a good initiative to prevent anorexia cases displaying healthy images with the same asthetic value. This shows that certain proffessions are more risked to suffer this illness only by the mere fact they are forced to present a predetermined image which is fashionable and constantly ever changing. 

However this law shows a different perspective. In Milán <R>  , designers dont support this because it's supposed a great amount of negative consequences. Some of them are the loss of money, bad publicity and different physical cannon. This Organization allow the models parade without reaching the minimum pattern accepted and knowing that this decision involves negative and controversial consequences. But, from my point of view, I think that Spain initiative puts an effective measure to prevent the disease as well as it contributes to have more healthy images that are completely neccesary to avoid the fake myth of being perfect in every scope in our lives , because perfection doesn't exist and everybody has to learn to assume their faults and doesn't drive them to struggle to achieve something unreachable. 

Often, anorexia started when a teenager or a young woman goes on a normal diet to lose weight <R> . According to one of them, <Q> . There are several web pages that support the ilness as a lifestyle, giving them pieces of advices to go on, and being even underweight and making hard to recognize that they are sick constantly lying and weary bagging clothes. To me, the faster spreading of the illness is amazing. It is very taugh to diagnose this kind of disease but these reponses are the main goals that an anorexic wishes for. One of the most helpful thing we can do is looking after the way we talk about the physical appearance of others, don't constantly critisize our own appearance for the way we look and try to place our physical in a second position because due to their youth they are very impresionable and  they could learn certain repetitive conducts that could carry them to an obssession, fostering different values such as giving more importance to other aspects and never to place in front physical appearance to health.

Anorexia is more common in teenage girls aged between 13-19 white people in Western societies and in developing countries. Because of  the early age as parents what can they do? According to the Eating Disorders Association <Q> <R>. The first step is try to make the person recognize his/her illness and then a doctor's help. I believe that it is upset for families to support young woman who are receiving treatment.It is very important to know the illness, having regular familiar meetings with the health proffessional to be informed and to be answered about their own doubts and help our daughter/ son to be happy at a normal weight. There may also be other problems associated with eating disorders, such as depression, repeated worries or trying to be perfect. To me, early recognizition, action and family support of  treatment make a better recovery, in the same way as avoid making comments about losing or gaining weight. 

To sum up, the voluntary semi-starvation that is result from the disease can damage physically and psychologically. How can a girl of 8 years old die because she thinks she is fat and that is the reason because of she hasn't any success in life? (metro dated january 10)  The truth is anorexia concerned society at the same time society has created the illness.While extermely thin stereotypes were the images to imitate, anorexics will exist.                    



