Many sectors of society seem to be worried about recent increases in levels of scholastic failure. This could be considered one of the main problems of the future generations, that are supposed to be correctly trained at this moment to face personal and social issues, but actually they are not.  Following Leslie F. Hale and Ed.D , <Q> . My own view is that there are three main focal points involved in the scholastic failure; these are parents, teachers and school and society. I'll focus on each of them and try to explain, which responsibility do I think they have in this issue, which are the causes and what I understand as the main consequences of it. Afterwards, i'll intend to propose possible solutions always taking into account my own point of view. 
            The domestic environment in which children grow could be considered as one of the main factors that affect the attitude the children would have towards school and education. From my view, scholars not only have to be "taught" but also "eduacted", and so, parents play an important role in the development of their children, as well as teachers, since they are active agents in the educational process. Following  Myriam L. Baker, Jane Nady Sigmon and M. Elaine Nugent, the main causes of the scholar failure regarding family factors, are lack of guidance or parental supervision, domestic violence, poverty, drug or alcohol abuse it the home, lack of awareness of attendance laws, and differing attitudes toward education. Personally speaking, parents of children that fail at school do not seem to pay the necessary attention to their children's education or, even worse, do not give it the importance it actually has. As pointed out by Leslie F. Hale and Ed.D, <Q> . Some people would argue that nowadays is quite common that both parents work and they do not have time enough to attend meetings with teachers, help their children with homeworks or be involved in activities regarding school. It is just a matter of lack of time.  I realize that the rhytm of a full-time working parent is usually very difficult to follow. But I strongly believe that if you take the responsibility of having a baby, it must be because you consider you are prepared. And if you actually do not have time to spend on your baby, then the fact is that you are not. <Q>  reveals the article published in BBC news in 2001. But I would like to remark that educating a child is not only responsibility of the mother. Both parents are involved.
            School is the first impression children get of organized society and this impression needs to be positive in order to help student to achieve sucess in adult life. So, the school environment also influences academic development.  There are many negative aspects involved in failure at school in what refers to teachers and school.  <Q>  as said by Myriam L. Baker, Jane Nady Sigmon and M. Elaine Nugent. In addition, I tend to believe that teachers are not really concerned about the importance of their job and how it can help students to cultivate and develop a better life for themselves. The work done in classrooms seems to be insuficient in what has to deal with satisfying the real needs and answer questions boiling in the mind of the students, or even worse, dissapoints them. Following Murray Rose, 25% of students don't attend to school because don't like the subjects or the teacher and the 3% because of the scholar activities. Many teachers, as professionals, may think that their role is just teaching, but not educating, and that parents are suppossed to take the role of educators instead of them. Moreover, in many cases they do not have economical, material and human resources enough to face scholastic failure. An inadequate curriculum, lack of interest or low expectations for their pupils can damage seriously student's potential, leading them into truancy, failure and finally dropping out school.  As a response to this, i would say that according to Encyclopœdia Britannica Dictionary online <Q> . So, in the action of teaching there are two events involved: to train and to learn. If the students do not learn, the action of teaching is incomplete, and you can not be defined as a "teacher" in the right sense of the word. Although you do not consider yourself as an educator but as a teacher, if you are not involved in the process of learning, in the instruction of your students, your aim is incompleted as well. 
            Refering to social aspects, nowadays society has changed, and inmigration would be considered as one of the factors involved in this change. People from different cultures and with different customs have to co-exist, and this requires a process of integration, which is hard in most cases. Furthermore in case of emigration to a country with a foreign language, it is clear that it involves another extra-difficulty for children to success at school, just because they are not able to understand correctly what they are being taught, or even express themselves accurately. <Q> <R> . Also there are other social factors that would affect into failure at school. Mentioning again Leslie F. Hale and Ed.D we can find that children  <Q> 
            Elementary and Middle education takes place during a crucial stage on children. That is from five to thirteen years old. During this phase, the outstanding characteristics of the person are being formed, and it's when most important conflicts of personality can emerge and when his/her personal resources have to be strengthened and settled down to face life as an adult. Having problems during your academic training at elementary, middle or high schools would be translated as later problems for the individual in the society due to the lack of knowledge of those who are now children or teens, but one day will have to walk on their own as adults. Absenteeism in school is usually developing into dropout. <R> <Q> . Truancey and dropping out seems to be increasing to the exent of being worrying nowadays. As an instance,  10.9 percent of the 34.6 million children between 16 and 24 years old in the United States were dropout in 2000, following the dropout rates given by the US Departament of Education. For my part dropping out just means difficulties in later life because these children or youngs that are leaving school without an appropiate training have less opportunities and development in worklife than people who graduate. As we can see in Focus Adolescents Services web: <Q> . But some people would argue that dropping out promotes jobs among youth and so, they are able to earn faster than teens that have to finish their education. And this means economical development and growing for the country.  As a response to this and as it is remarked again in Focus Adolescents Services web <Q> . The main reason would be because dropouts are less skilled workers, and so, they get jobs with lower salaries. So, dropping out school means a less educated workfoce.
            Taking into account Myriam L. Baker, Jane Nady Sigmon and M. Elaine Nugent, <Q> . This feeling of failure leads into lack of motivation and interest in studies, and, furthermore, truancy and, finally, dropping out. In adittion, what truancy brings is not very positive for children and youth. It is usually related to drugs, theft, violent activity and delinquency in general. <Q> <R> . Of course, the more truant the student is, the more difficult he or she would find to catch up missed work, and so, the more truant he becames. It's a vicious circle very difficult to break for the pupil on his/her own. 
            Talking about possible solutions and on what has to deal with the teacher's role in student's failure, it is quite significant the importante of a positive teacher-student relationship in all levels as a possible solution of this issue. Through a sense of team, of community where all members are repected, students would feel more confident on their teacher and on their own capacities. From my view, this is a way of getting students more involved in academic life and believe on their own capacities as potential and responsible adults.  Preaching principles as trust, co-working and responsibility is a powerful weapon if they are reinforced correctly, and an effective way to build a supportive classroom environment in which pupils would feel that they are wanted and needed. Moreover, I strongly believe that teachers should talk with and listen to their students, and show that they care about them and that he or she is willing to help them as individuals. This positive relationship whith pupils would give the support they need to success at studies. Lack of interest in their job or students can also be avoided. If the job you have doesn't suit you, maybe it would be a good idea trying to get another job which really fulfils your professional vocation. In many cases, teachers are not able to look for another job so easily, or they are not prepared enough to train their students. From my view the problem of inadequate curriculum would be solved by attending to retrain courses many schools use to offer to their staff (such as seminars, conferences... etc). If your job does not suits you and you are not able to look for another job, then, retrain yourself to become a better professional.
            Also, I encourage parents to get involved in the academic life of their children as well. There is an actual matter of lack of time if both parents work. But it is important that they manage to reconcile labour and family life. <Q> <R> . Although those opportunities offered for parents who work, many of them would say that they can't afford a part-time work or a longer maternity leave. In this case, I think it would be a good help for parents attending to pedagogical guidance or supervision and tutorial programms offered at schools to detect possible problems their children would have at studies, without affecting their domestic economy.
            Among social and governmental aspects and possible solutions, I would suggest modernizing existing programms in and outside the school. These programms would be very positive if involve familiar, educational and social factors around pupils. Also more estimates from Government in order to have more economical, material and human means taking into account special education schools for children with learning difficulties. Reducing the number of pupils per classroom would make easy for teachers to offer personal attention to them, which i believe is very significant in the fight against academic failure. In my opinion, periodical supervision and evaluation of the educational system by governmental offices are required as well. This includes teaching staff, which has to be adequate, qualified and committed with his or her students. 
            Many people would argue that this means a very high cost for Government. To those people I would say that the social cost of scholar failure and dropping out could be much higher, as <R>   <Q> 
            To conclude, parents, teachers and society are directly involved into the process of education and success at studies of scholars.  Promoting a good teacher-student relationship, reconcilating labour and family life or attending to pedagogigal services offered at schools, more economical, human and material means are, from my view, effective solutions to avoid scholastic failure. I personally believe that what you are in the future, comes from what you work in the present, and as is preached in  Focus Adolescents Services web: <Q> . 






