	
      When a concert is going to take place in Spain, the first thing that teenagers or young adults would like to know before deciding whether or not to  purchase an entrance ticket is where is the concert going to be held. In our country there is no one specific "legal age" for the country as a whole, but depending on each city, the ages may vary. For example in the capital city, Madrid, people must be over 18 to be able to attend a rock concert, while in Barcelona this age descends to 16, however in certain places people under 16 years of age are allowed to access the concert hall if they are  accompanied by an adult who assumes total responsibility for the teenager. In this essay I intend to show the different opinions for and against this controversial topic and I will also express my opinions regarding the matter and possible solutions for this situation.
      
      Many people believe and strongly defend the view that music is a culture as many other arts are, such as literature or painting. They argue that if music is culture, going to concerts should be allowed to any person that wants to attend the particular concert, in order to have free access to this kind of culture. The basis of the banning of youngsters to go to see concerts seems to be one of the articles of the law about drug addictions and addictive upsets, called <Q> <R> . Many people seem to find this law quite unuseful, because when youngsters are not allowed to enter a place to drink alcohol, they may rebel and take the party to the street, which seems to have an even worse affect as the teenagers are quite noisy and can cause disturbance to local residents of the area. On top of the noise pollution, they leave the streets completely covered in litter, causing the area to look very unattractive.

	From my point of view, this law could be improved in order to let these young people to see the concerts they want to. There are certain countries where people that are underage are still allowed to enter the venues, but when they are about to go inside, they are requested for an identification card by the security guards at the door, and if these people are below the allowed age, they receive a stamp on their hands, so that when inside ready to purchase a beverage, they can not buy alcoholic drinks from the bar as the person serving them can clearly see that they have been stamped on the hand indicating that they are a too young. Another possible solution for this law could be that the waiters themselves asking for an identification card when people want to buy alcohol, which could serve as another way of controlling these youngsters in order to prevent the consumption of alcoholic drinks within the venue.

	Moreover, there have been several protests organized and performed by people under the age of 16 or people that generally do not agree with the law, because they view it as unfair the fact that people of a certain age can see the music they like live in other cities (Barcelona) whilst they have to wait to become "adults" to see that particular artist in their city or the city closest to them. The protesters argue that if people at the age of 16 years can go to prison or work legally, they should also be able to see a live show and listen to the music they like, and this way practices like the famous "botellon" could be avoided <R> . At this point we must consider this single question: Why is there this age difference between two of the main cities in our country for entrance into specific venues? Though it is not fully clear at this point, this difference may be due to the fact that the Catalonian government acts on its own, almost as though they have their own independent government from the rest of the country, concluding that this law about alcohol is considerably different to the laws throughout the rest of the country.

	I personally find this quite unfair to those under aged people that they are deprived of seeing the bands or artists they like in one city, but if they spend the money for the travel costs and fees they can see the show of the same artist and enter without any kind of problem at all. I feel that if a person is underage but he or she is accompanied by a responsible adult that will fully claim responsibility for them, there should be no problem in letting that person enter the show, because the adult has previously agreed to take care of him or her by attending that concert with them. On the other hand, in the case that people below 18 still are not allowed to enter the concert, the solution could be that, when selling the tickets, the seller should ask for the identity card and check whether that person is over 18 or not before selling them the entrance ticket.

	In some countries such as Canada or the USA there are no restrictions on age when talking about access to shows. Although when a concert is being held in a bar, people under the allowed age can not enter the place, because they sell alcohol and so they can not drink it as they do not have the required age. But if the concert takes place in a venue for example, even teenagers of about 12 or 13 years old can see the show, whether they are accompanied by an adult or if they are on their own. In some places they also allow people below the drinking age to enter the venue to see the show where they sell alcohol, but they are not allowed to buy or drink any alcoholic beverages while they are inside. In England it is age free, unless it is in a particular club or bar which should clearly have their age restrictions known to the public before the event in question is about to take place.

	I strongly believe that if a teenager wants to see a concert with an adult that is responsible for their safety, they should be allowed to access the concert, but without forgetting about the alcohol restrictions, so providing the waiter when buying the drink an identification card or outside the security guards stamping the hand of those that are underage or providing them with a coloured wrist band which is quite commonly associated and used when attending concerts in the USA, so that the person in question does not drink anything alcoholic. The problem with this however is that there is a chance the adult is buying the alcoholic drinks and may give it to the youngster and here is where the conflict begins.

	Nowadays there are several musicians that are against these restrictions in these venues and they are promoting written actions to finish with this part of the law as many of their fans are not able to attend as they are too young. They are even playing some shows for people with ages below 18 as a way to protest against this banning of people under 18 seeing them live on stage. It must be taken into account that there are some musicians whose main supporters are really young fans that are the ones which buy all of their cd's and go to the signing sessions just to meet and see the artist in person. Due to these people not being able to see the live shows, the artists lose money generated by ticket sales.

	In my opinion, this is a good idea to show that not all teenagers drink alcohol when going to concerts. The only thing that most of them want is just to be able to see their favourite artists playing live in concert, to sing along to their favourite songs they enjoy listening to at home on their own or with friend and family, or even to make some new friends while waiting outside in line to enter the concert that share their interests.

	As a conclusion, in this essay I have talked about the different opinions about the legal age to access shows in Spain, pointing out the differences between the two main cities in our country and comparing the situation with other countries around the world, and I also provided my point of view and some solutions to the issue.

	 

