
It is widely spread over the world the nowadays tendency among young people of downloading music, films and/or videogames from the world wide web rather than buying them. People involved in these industries (music industry, cinema industry and computers industry) are arguing these days about the damage this fact is doing on the sales and profits, and also they are looking for possible solutions to stop this practice. In this essay I'll talk about the different opinions on this topic concerning the music industry, some of the advantages and disadvantages of this "modern-piracy" and how cd sells are not everything for an artist. 

In this modern era, where children and adolescents prefer watching television, playing videogames or surfing the net to classic games or going out with friends, there is a practice that is growing everyday: downloading music from internet. This practice has more and more supporters as time goes by. One of the main reasons for this growing number of supporters is that the price of cd's is too high for young people who have no incomes at all. A consequence of the rise of cd prices is that people find other ways to get the music they want in a cheaper way, and so they obtain it from the net.

The file-sharing networks are the fastest and easiest way to get the so-called mp3 files from the internet. According to <R> <Q> . And she also points out that the number increased up to <Q> . This data shows us how the number of users increases everyday, which is said to be one of the main reasons for the music industry to have lower profits these very last years.

In the last few years, many people from the music industry (record labels, producers, bands, singers...) have complained about people downloading their albums from the net and recording them by themselves instead of spending money buying the original cd lowering the profit made by the music industry. <Q> <R> .

But the music industry seems not to be saying the whole truth about the situation. As an example, here is some data related to the sales in the United Kingdom: <Q> <R> . This is a proof that despite people downloading music more and more, the sales are not as low as they are trying to make us think. <Q> <R> .

One of the world's main opposers of this free sharing of music is the Recording Industry Association of America (or RIAA). <Q> <R> .
There exist a lot of peer-to-peer programs which are commonly used by internet users for this purpose of obtaining mp3 files: Emule, Napster, Kazaa, Torrent... A definition of peer-to-peer could be: <Q> <R> . 
One of the main advantages of the downloading of music on the internet is that, being internet the media with the most huge dissemination nowadays, artists can upload songs and make themselves more known to the audience. Many people listen these days to singers or bands that they didn't even know before looking for them on the net. <Q> <R> . And as a proof, we can observe that everyday a lot of artists decide to make use of this media to let the people know them, for example uploading a few of their songs to their official website for people to download them, or even using MySpace, a kind of blog where musicians can also upload up to four songs for people to hear them and even add them as friends and send them messages.
Not only this uploading songs by the musicians work as a way to spread their sound, but they can even use this method to, for example, measure the acceptance of their future work by the audience. There are a few singers that have been releasing just a song per a few months, and by controlling the number of downloads by the users and also taking a look at their opinions on the comments on the site or the forums, they make an approximate guess of how well the upcoming album will be doing.
But it has to be considered as well that some institutions from the music industry keep most of the money gathered from selling cd's, and that where artists really earn money is when being on tour. Taking Spain as an example, there are several people that are running a website (compartiresbueno.com) and they act as an association against the anti-piracy movement iniciated by SGAE (Sociedad General de Autores), which is the spanish RIAA, organising several protest movements to make the SGAE lower the prices of the cd's. This association asserts that SGAE keeps a 60% of profit out of each cd. Considering this data, this leaves a 40% per cd sold for the artist, but not only for him, but for his manager, his producer, his record label... This is a proof that musicians really get their profits when they are promoting the album on tour, with the concerts, because it is then when they keep most of the benefits for themselves and share it with the company members. If we take this point into account, it is clear that downloading music is not such as illegal as it may seem at first, because as i said above in the previous points internet helps people to know new artists or bands, and if the person who downloaded their music liked what he heard, he will go to see that artist or band live on stage and maybe even buy the cd.
A clear disadvantage about this whole topic is that despite the great number of users who download music and buy the albums or go to concerts later on, it can not be refuted that there is still a great number of people that just download the songs or the cd's and burn them for themselves, spending only the really low price of a virgin cd.
As a final conclusion, I think that downloading music from the internet is a good thing as a whole because of many reasons: it helps the world's spreading of music faster than any other media and it gets to more different people and also, a person who really likes music, first tries to listen to some songs from a new artist completely unknown to him, and if he likes what he has heard, he buys the cd's after downloading a few songs and listening to them, and he even goes to the concerts, where, as I said before, the artists trully earn money. We should also keep in mind that, the more banned and illegal the downloading of files is, the more it will be done by users.


 
