
      When people start talking about abortion, it is for sure that they have just started a controversial topic to deal with. There are several different opinions concerning this topic, depending on who you talk to: youngsters, the catholic Church, rape or incest victims or even women whose live's are in danger because of being pregnant all argue diverse points of view depending on their social status, religious beliefs or even their age. In this essay I am going to talk about the different points of view concerning abortion. 
      	
      There is a wide range of opinions about this issue, but they are mainly divided into three groups. The first group would be formed by people who are completely in favour of the woman's choice on abortion, that is, pro-choice. The second one, those who are completely against it, or people who have pro-life opinions. And other ones who argue about the possibility of abortion in a series of specific cases, and even then these people are not completely sure about it, but think it is a good solution for those cases. 
      
      It must be considered as well that, depending on who you are going to talk to about this topic, the different cases on which abortion can be applied may have different opinions. This is, if you ask about abortion in a specific case to a determined group of people they will differ in their arguments from another group of people. According to <R> <Q> . As we will see, the answer clearly is Yes. That answer is a medical and scientific one, for we cannot impose a religious or philosophic belief in our nations through force of law. The second question is: <Q> <R> . These three questions should help people discover which of the three groups of opinions they agree with.

	The number of abortions seems to be highier than many people may think. Several different groups of people decide for one reason or another to stop the pregnancy. Some of the cases that will be mentioned in this essay are youngsters under 20 years old who become pregnant, victims of rape or even women whose live's are threatened because of pregnancy. In a quotation taken from HumanLife.com: <Q> <R> . This shows the high percentage of pregnancy interruptions that are taking place nowadays in our societies.
	
      The group of people that is believed to be the main supporters of abortion is teenagers who become pregnant. This group, including youngsters below 20 years old, increases the number of abortions each year. But despite this fact, nowadays the number of teenage pregnancies, though being quite high, seems to be lowering as time goes by. As Darroch states: <Q> <R> . These pregnant teenagers are some of the main suppoters of abortion, or pro-choice defenders, because most of them choose to go on with their studies and their lives, and helped sometimes by their parents and others by friends or social centers decide to abort. 

      It is well known among Christian culture the Church's inclination towards the issue, who are the main opposers to any kind of abortion, and as a consequence, pro-life supporters. According to what can be read in NewAdvent.org: <Q> <R> . 
      
      One of the main controversial points when talking about abortion seems to be the cases related to women who are victims of rape or incest and have become pregnant. As it is said in PregnantPause.org: <Q> <R> . 
      The one point that seems to have the three different opinions agreed on the topic is when facing the fact of saving a woman's life. Sometimes giving birth can be a serious danger for the woman, and a the only solution for that is abortion. This is called "theurapeutic abortion", and it <Q> <R> . There seems to be no doubt that for nearly everyone that has an opinion upon abortion it is more important saving the woman's life when it is threatened than preserving the embrio. Not only this, but also to preserve the baby to have serious defect when born, defect that will affect the child's entire life.
	In general, it may seem that abortion is not the solution for all of the cases mentioned in this essay. In order to prevent a percentage of the abortion	rate, sexual education should be taught at schools, so young people would be properly informed about how to elude teenage pregnancy. In the very few cases when a woman is pregnant after being raped or suffering incest debate is divided, but abortion appears to be the best option to get over the trauma. Concerning the Church's oposition towards abortion, it is clear that religious beliefs have an important role when having to make a decision like abort or not, but not always is possible to go on with the pregnancy and so abortion should be considered.
	In this essay I have talked about the different opinions concerning abortion: what teenagers think about it, the Church's opinion on the topic, the diverse thoughts when a woman is raped and as a consequence becomes pregnant, and also when a woman's life is at risk because of becoming pregnant. In any case, there is a question to have in mind: is always abortion the best option? What about all those couples that desire to have children and the can not have them? Should it be better not to have an abortion and give the child in adoption for those couples to have their own families?




