
These days appears to be something quite normal to see in magazines or in 
television underage models on the catwalks. Although these news seem really 
current nowadays we have not think seriously about all the bad connotations 
of this facts. From 1960 to 2005 our society has been ruled by a superficial 
atmosphere.
Most children born with the idea of being professional models; people seem 
not to be aware of the troubles that this young people have to confront. In this 
essay I will try to explain why I believe that young teenage models should not be 
professional models.
From my point of view, the main argument against underage models on 
Catwalks is education <Q>. A lot of people think that 
professional models are not intelligent, they considered them as mere toys or 
dummies to put on clothes. <Q>.Those 
who are in favour of underage models on catwalk always use examples of 
professional models that have finished their degree to probe that this fact is not 
real, but the majority of underage models have not finished their school 
education. It is something ironic that they earn their fist million before passing 
their  secondary exams. On the other hand we can not forget the whole areas 
that education covers. It is not only to have a good education what forms an 
individual it is also relation with others what complements us a human beings. 

My opinion is also supported on the fact that most of this teenagers do 
not have family representation during their career, they grow up without any 
contact with the family, totally isolated. They face  a whole hard word with 
the only contact of managers. It is true that parents sometimes act like
blinds with the quantity of money they receive. Some of them would claim 
that they are pretty aware with the conditions that models suffer. But most 
times they forget what the best thing is for their children. <Q>.
             
       Closely related to this, I believe that anorexic problems depend in the 
majority of the cases in the role that models represent. Whole families are 
broken every year by this problems, which is more normal in girls but 
something that it is affecting boys also. In spite of this  Companies of the fashion
business defends that they are not responsible for this fact, most teenagers are 
weigh down by this propaganda everyday. <Q>.
       
       On the other hand we can forget the world that round  models, it is a
world  based on drugs, alcohol and anorexia. Most teenagers' models 
begin to take drugs at the age of fourteen due to the pressure that they suffer. 
The majority feel free to take their own decisions due to the not representation 
of their family, this causes a lot of inner conflicts in immature people. They have 
to face 10 interviews or more per day, the stress and the this kind of life begin to 
consume them. The Calvin Klein company, like many in the fashion industry, is 
known for its eye-catching advertising. It is noted that uses underage models in 
pseudo-provocative poses. Although most defensors of underage models 
 think that this kind of life is not so hard for teenagers; but there are most 
models that do not approve what is happening <Q>.

       Moreover most of these girls suffer sexual abuses during their first years 
of their career. They have to sell their bodies not just on the catwalks 
although in their private lifes. It is hard to imagine how they can survive in this 
complicated world. A lot of them sell their dream in order to be known in the
world of fashion. When the reality of this fact is that the 85% percent of models 
finished their career at the age of 25 without an education an with a lot of 
psychological and drugs problems. It is curious how companies and defensors of 
fashion can approve it. But it is what they have to face everyday.

 Nowadays more of less of the population thinks that beauty is one of the most 
important things, something that if we stop to think about it will die through the 
ages <Q>.

       To conclude, though some people would claim that underage models 
have their rights to be on catwalks and to be professional models, in my opinion 
I think that parents must be aware rather than send them through a fascinating 
a dangerous world and prepare them until be covet. Money is something 
important in our society but I believe that we have not loose our senses that 
education and love is what form a person as an individual.




7

