
       
       The different views of practising sex, with or without have been one of 
the most controversial themes in recent decades. Sex is defined by the 
dictionary as activities associated with sexual intercourse, without any moral 
label. Nowadays, in our society a lot of people feel comfortable with practising 
sex with complete strangers. They prefer to have sporadic relationships to 
practice sex without love. However, other people consider this practise immoral 
and prefer to have sex with love. In this essay I will discuss the different moral 
viewpoints of practising sex with or without love.

       To begin with, there are several arguments in favour of practising sex 
without love. Many people believe that sex without love is better than sex with 
love. They argue that practising sex without having any love connotations, 
make you feel free, and that it is more pleasant. According to Woody Allen <Q>. The majority of people that usually have 
these kinds of sporadic sexual relations consider love as a chain and find in 
these sexual affairs free to liberate all their passions. Sex without love is only 
considered for them as a need that every human being has. As Allen argues, 
some people might also claim that love can generate tension, due to the 
sentimental connotations that love implies; if a person wants to alleviate his or 
her sexual needs; they should be allowed to do it in the way they prefer. The 
first argument is not a convincing argument due to the fact that people who 
believe in sex with love could feel the same freedom and can liberate all their 
passions in their sexual relations with their couples. 
The second one is rather doubtful because thinking about love as generator of 
tension it is an exaggerate idea. However the strong argument is the third one 
because each person should have the right to choose what kind of sexual 
relation they want to have. 

       Those who are against in having sex without love claim that this practice 
devalues the splendour of sex. Many people still considering that sex was made 
for lovers.The writer of: <Q>. 
Miriam Howland  maintains that: <Q>. The majority of people  who are in favour of sex with love 
could claim that most people are not prepared for this experience. The fact that 
this practice seems to be a usual practice in young people, could generate some 
inner problems in their minds if they are not prepare for it. Due to their 
vulnerability they could feel deep loliness and incomprehension. Some people 
argue that practising sex as animals without any moral label is something bad. 
The first two arguments seem to be convincing arguments because, having sex 
in this way could make it devaluated. Also it is logical to think that practising 
sex without any moral label could be dangerous experience for people that are 
not prepared. However, the third argument it does not make sense at all and it 
is too general due to the fact each individual has his or her own moral to act in 
the way they consider better. 
       
       Some people would argue that having sex with or withour love depends 
on the person. They consider that sometimes it is not easy to find true love, and 
in the meantime it is not bad to have different experiences.As Woody Allen 
qouted <Q>. Many people in favour of the fact that Woody Allen 
presents, could argue that sex without love as experience is not bad at all. It 
seems that a lot of people prefer to have sex with love but in the case that they 
could not have it, they prefer to practice it without love rather than not 
practising it. They argue that is it an empty experience, because in sexual affairs 
with strangers you do not have complicity; something that in relationships is 
very important. These arguments seem not make sense, are illogical because it 
seems strange that once that you have probed that it is an empty experience you 
would still like to practise it. 
       One of the strongest arguments suggested by those who are in favour of 
sex without love, is to consider these sexual realation as a way of knowing 
themselves better and not to be judged. According to Leon Felkins the writer of 
"The memes of love, sex and marriage" wrote that: <Q> <R>.
Closely related to this, people who like to have these sporadic relations, most of 
the times feel fear of being judge by their couple, that it is why they prefer to 
have this kind of relation, in order of not being judge. Moreover, experience for 
them is something really important. They prefer to being experienced before of 
marriage. This fact of experience usually takes places in men more than women, 
due to the moral prejudices that they have. As Billy Crystal said <Q>. It seems to be easier for men to 
have these kinds of sexual encounters. The moral view of this matter usually 
affects people who have sex without love, even without being marriage.
Consider sex without love as a perfect situation of not knowing themselves 
better and not to be judged, is a weak argument and too general due to the fact 
that this freedom on bed could be find also in couple that are in love. The term 
experience in bed is something that most people argue to defend sex without 
love, but it is not very convincing due to the fact, that experience is something 
that is learn by the pass of the time, having sexual relations with to many 
people does not assure gaining experience. The last argument seems to be the 
strongest one, due to the fact that the majority of women religious or not 
consider virginity as and important theme and want to find a serious 
relationship instead of having sexual encounters.
       
       Some arguments in favour of sex with love argue that the purpose of sex 
is to share it with lovers. They consider sex as a manifestation of feelings that it 
is why they deny the idea of viewing sex as a meral interchange of human 
passions and needs. According to a chapter from the book The Teenager's 
Guide to the Real World <Q>. Many people 
who are against sex without love consider it, a as practice of prostitution, due to 
the fact that in a way you are selling your body in order to receive pleasure. 
This argument that consider love as a manifestation of love could seem 
doubtful because in a way sex could be consider as a manifestation of love but it 
is true that in another way it is an interchange of human sexual needs. The last 
argument is very subjective, because not for having sex without love you get 
prostitution. It is a truth universally acknowledged that each person to have the 
right to decide about his or her life.
       To sum up, we can see that there are many moral arguments both 
defending and condemning the practice of sex with or without love. It has being 
argued very convincingly that each individual has the right to decide what is 
better for them. However, some people use to have these sexual affairs without 
being prepare. This fact can cause them inner conflicts inside. That is why 
people should be more concern about all the connotations that sex without love 
implies instead of thinking about as a simply human need.
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       


1

