

      
      The disease called Anorexia Nervosa is causing serious problems in 
young people and it is becoming one controversial theme in our decade. 
Anorexia Nervosa is psychophysiological disorder characterized by an 
abnormal fear of becoming obese and therefore a distorted self-image. This 
results in an unwillingness to eat leading to severe weight loss. It can also be 
accompanied by vomiting, excessive exercise and other physiological changes. 
Taking into account that this disease tends to be a psychological problem, 
people should analyse the social background that rounded their children in 
order to be aware of what are the causes that are affecting them. In this essay I 
am going to review a variety of opinions about Anorexia Nervosa, how affects 
children  and then, I will argue why people should be more aware about this 
serious disease, and I will provide some solutions.

      To begin with, there are many people which agree that this disease can 
be surpassed if we pay attention to the nutritional habits of our children. They 
also try to make people react about the serious connotations that Anorexia 
Nervosa implies as muscle wasting, low energy and the damage of organs such 
as the heart. <Q> <R>. It is important to behave 
our children how to eat. Most children that suffer this illness are not aware of 
what it implies. I believe that, this is a logical argument, because the task of 
behaving children about the rights eating habits must be taught by parents. 
<Q> <R>.. The majority of people still believing that this disease 
just affects women, while it has been proved that nowadays it can be suffered 
by anybody. In my opinion, I consider that most people should realise what is 
the meaning of Anorexia Nervosa, and should begin to understand that is not a 
problem that just affect women. 
 <Q> <R>. The truth is that this disease 
tends to affect more women than men, but we do not have to forget that it is an 
illness also suffered by men. Those who do not know that this problem could 
also affect men are unconsciously leaving a side all those men that can suffer 
this disease. In my opinion, this argument is very precise, and convinces the 
reader because, most people are seemed to ignore what Anorexia Nervosa 
implies.

      Another important aspect to take into account is the role of the mass 
media in young people. Children are constantly exposed to stereotypes by the 
television, radio and the Internet. Also most television's announcements make 
them believe that eating fast food is not bad for health. <Q> <R>.  In an early youth, human's minds tend to be 
influenced by their social background; that is why I consider this argument 
reasonable because I think that, it is important to make the children understand 
the differences between healthy and unhealthy foods. <Q> <R>. The mass media have played an important role during the last decades 
influencing people. It seems quite normal to see "anorexic models" on the 
television and consider them healthy. But we can not negate the evidences that 
most models tend to suffer some kind of eating disorder. To understand more 
or less what children think, we have to analyse the repercussion of these 
constant images of anorexic women can have in our children. Fashion designers 
and people in charge of these kinds of announcements in television should be 
more aware about the serious risks that teenagers are exposed to by this kind of 
influences. I consider this argument very important, because most children are 
not aware of these risks. Those who are in charge of these fashion 
announcements should provide some information in order to make young 
people think about the risk in which they can be involved if they follow their 
fashion patterns. However, those who are in favour of these announcements 
argued that they are not in charge of educating children. They also argued that 
parents and schools should provide them a good knowledge in order to 
determine which kind of patrons they should follow. In my opinion, this 
argument is weak an not reasonable, because those who are in charge of these 
announcements should be more concerned about children needs instead of 
showing them what is not good for them.

      However, there are people who consider anorexic's stereotypes as a 
representation of beauty. They argued that fat people are not healthy. 
Fashionable Vogue magazine reports that, <Q> <R>. It is true that fat people are not 
healthy, but neither are thin people. Those who agree that to be thin is the most 
important thing, usually can make a bad influence in children, without even 
know it. Due to the fact that any extreme opinion is not the correct one, we 
should find equilibrium. I my own opinion, this argument of considering fat 
people unhealthy to in a way determine that thin people are healthier, seems to 
be weak and not convincing. Because, those who believe that healthier people 
are the thinner one, are not conscious of what being anorexic implies. They 
seem to not know that anorexic can produce inner conflicts in young people, 
such as psychological and physical problems, and even worse it can make 
people die. On the other had considering fat people as healthy it is wrong idea.  
In my opinion, the argument which says that we should find equilibrium 
between fatness and thinness in order to be healthy, is the most convincing one, 
because extremes positions are not good in order to determine a theme which is 
so important and controversial.

      Related to Anorexic problems, those people who are aware of the serious 
risks of this disease have provided solutions, in order to make people surpass 
the disease and make people who are not aware of it react.  The constant 
attention from the parents to their children can avoid the contraction of 
Anorexia Nervosa.  <Q> <R>.  Establishing eating patrons can make our children realised about the 
serious risks that Anorexia implies. Constantly criticising our own appearance, 
or criticising our daughters for the way they look, gives them a bad example. It 
could influence them to start bad dieting behaviours, which might become a 
serious eating problem <R>. In my point of 
view, this strong argument seems to be very convincing, because good 
influences in eating behaviour can help children to establish good nutritional 
habits. 
      
      To sum up, we can see that there are many arguments that establishes 
Anorexia Nervosa as one important disease in our society. The ignorance of the 
serious risk that Anorexia Nervosa entails is very important to take into 
account. The important fact that this disease is now affecting men is an 
important thing that people must be aware of it. Another important fact is the 
influence of the mass media in children, making them consumers of fast food 
and followers of anorexic stereotypes. All these bad influences can be solved by 
teaching children how to eat in a healthy way, than in my opinion should be 
taught by parents and teachers but also by society.










 
 
 
 
 


6

