In modern times, immigration has become one of the most important topics to deal with in our daily lifes. The reason of this is that in just a few decades the number of immigrants that Spain is receiving has incredibly increased, <Q> <R>  ;another data shows <Q> <R> ; it's important to mention <Q> <R> . This situation worries both the citizens and the government.In this essay,I will discuss some of the main viewpoints concerning to the topic of immigration and I will explain my personal opinion about it.

It has been argued that immigration has a bad effect on our country and its society.Immigrants, normally are in a bad economical situation and they want money over everything to get a better life, tend to fall into the delinquency world to improve their situatio, but diminishing like this, natives's quality of life; this data shows <Q> <R> . From my point of view, this argument seems quite reasonable and persuasive due ti it reflects the ordinary situation of some Spanish citizens who live intimidate by violent groups of immigrants,however it is a much higher number of immigrants in a very bad economical situation who resist to that way of life and work very hard to improve their living.

It has also been said that immigrants may be a danger for the identity of the country and its citizens. The government spokesman for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, Miguel Becerra, said that the archipielago <Q> <R> . The reason for those who believe this affirm, is that if the government lets immigrations come here and create their own communitiees and then acquire political and social strenght, in not much time, they could take control of the country and lack native people of their values and habits, it is liver autonomy.In my opinion, this argument doesn't seem very relevant since the majority of immigrants that are arriving just want to have a better situation then they had in their countries but not to impose their culture on the receiver country.

On the other hand, there are those who are for immigration. Some people think that life in Spain will come cheaper thanks to the cheap labour of immigrants. The reason is that if the labour is not expensive for the merchant he will be able to sell the products cheaper than they were. This argument seems to me persuasive, however it has a big weakness. This is that the taxes we will have to pay will increase because of the growth of the social expenses at hands of immigrants ' families, since the State is oblied to pay for their necesities such as school.

It could be claimed that immigrants are useful to maintain the system of retirements. With the fall of birth rat and the ageing of the Spanish population, the day when the State won't have enough funds to pay the retirements is not very long away, so then the country will need immigrant workers whose quotations can help to fill with money these funds. Personally speaking, the problem with this argument is that not every immigrant worker quotations and furthermore, those who salary will receive a retirement too when they retire, so the contribution they're suposed to make to the funds for Spanish people retirements are not valid.

Spanish population feel that immigrants workers are responsible of the worsening of the jobs where they work at. Examples of that maybe the debasement of the salaries and the native workers feel how immigrants take their jobs off, since with their arrival there is a lot of cheap labour, which is more beneficial for managers. I consider that this argument seems reasonable, in my opinion it might be pointed out that in certain working camps such as agriculture and a fragment that support my argument is <Q> <R>  and also the activity has to be done by immigrants because native people don't want to make it.

There are other arguments regarding immigration, which depend on the kind of immigrant that comes to the country. It could be argued that only legal immigrants should be allowed to come to Spain and consider illegal immigration as a global problem, since as they have an identity document they can be controlled by the State as any Spanish citizen. <Q> <R>  ; this is the opinion of Spain's Secretary of State for International Relations for Iberoamerica, Bernardino León. <Q>  <R> . Other people feel that only immigrants with a good economical or cultural position must be allowed, as they could make a very good contribution with their knowledge and wealth. Finally, there are those who affirm that just immigrants with Hispanic roots must be allowed to stay, since there is a close link between those immigrants and Spanish native people. All these arguments are respectable but I disagree in some aspects. First, it must be taken into account that regarding the legality or not of immigrants, the illegal ones can come easily and in a fast way than legal because of different laws the government can make, as happens with amnesties and mass regularizations. In realtion to the economical and social level it must be said that those with a good position are the minority of immigrants coming and they are not the problem the country has to face with. Finally with regard to the topic of the Hispanic world, it has been proved that it is only something to justify the arrival of people who will work cheaper than native population or immigrants from other countries, for example from East-Europe, since the immigration of people from countries which are not related neither to Spain nor to Spanish language is being favoured, like happens with Brazil, Philippines,....

Some people have suggested that Spanish citizens should let immigrants come to Spain without obstacles. The reason pointed out is that Spain was some time ago a country that generated a lot of emigrants who were received in different countries, which were suposed to have the same problems Spain is having now; so what is being claimed is solidarity; <Q> <R>  . But despite the fact that solidarity is one of the basic and most important rules in a community, in my own view I feel the problem is that Spain can't even face the problems ( social, economical,...) of  part of her own population to deal with those of a great number of immigrants, furthermore most people who left Sapin to go to a foreing country was well assimilated on the country that what happens in Spain with a lot of immigrants.
                
In conclusion, in this essay we have seen that there are many arguments in relation with the topic of immigration. Some of them maintain that is perjudicial for the country as it contributes and generates delinquency and the worsening of certain kind of jobs. On the other hand, there are arguments for it, the maintaining of the system of retirements and solidarity with those who are like Spanish people were. Finally, there are arguments for immigration but just in case the immigrant is legal , has Hispanic roots or has a good position in the society. Concerning all these points, it might be reasonable that the government made a televised campaing where informed the citizens about the benefits and damages immigration can produce and after a precise survey study the solution to the situation the country is living taking into account both the nation's opinions and desires, and the best for Spain.  





