      
      In our current-day society, many people suffer abuses and they appear to be far from being eliminated. Taking only the domestic environment, we have to notice that exists a considerable number of cases in which children, old people, or either one or another part of a couple are suffering some kind of abuse (physical, sexual, psychological, economical, among others). If we take, for instance, intimate partner violence (IPV), the United Nations collect some alarming statistics: for example, in Georgia, it has been reported that 50% of families experience some form of domestic violence, while in Botswana 6 in 10 women are victims of it. In India and Mexico, statistics indicate that 14 wives are murdered by their husbands every day. A study in Sweden found that 70 per cent of women had experienced some form of violence or sexual harassment. And the Department of Health and Human Services of the U.S.A. shows us that, <Q> <R>. And that, a national study found that <Q> <R>. As the figures show, domestic violence is a worldwide problem. In this essay I intend to consider some of the causes of domestic violence related to couple relationships from a historical, sociological, and economical perspective based on the abuse of power and dependency. And at the same time, I will try to suggest some solutions in a short term to stop mistreatments, and in a long term to contribute to the definitive eradication of this problem. 
      
      In my view, one of the main points we should identify as responsible for current domestic violence has to do with the origin of the private property. As Fernando Mires gathers in his book La revolución que nadie soñó o la otra postmodernidad  the "economicista" trend maintains that the private property is the cause of the patriarchy, as it is when men carried out profitable tasks and later the benefits were inherited by descendants. Being things so, be recognized as a legitimate child, and not a bastard, became very important. And, if a man recognizes a child as his, this is by doing the same firstly with her wife. So, his wife could be justified to be of his property, since he produced the rest of goods. In short, the appearance of the private property gave a chance of  abuse. On the other hand, it is possible to argue that the problem arises from a matter of strength, since men are usually stronger that women. However, I tend to believe that abuse can only be committed by someone who has some kind of control or privilege upon another person, and it is not necessary a matter of sex  - where sex refers only to biological features-, but of power. In any case, it seems to me that the fact that this problem continues still alive is mainly a historical legacy deeply stuck on the minds of the masses, which is transmitted from one generation to another. Nowadays, domestic violence follows the same pattern, but men are also affected, as it is, first of all, a question of abuse of power.
      
      These days, traditional roles are still a strong factor which contributes to maintain abuses and dependency relationships. First of all, when for example the man works outside home and the woman remains at home as a housewife, there exists an economic dependency: the one who earns money has the power and the other part runs the risk to suffer some sort of blackmail. Second, while in the relationship only one works, the other is expected to do chores but also to raise children. And not only that, but we should add that while one finishes working when arrives home, the other is expected to be available and willing to clean, cook, take care of children 24 hours per day, that is, always. Also, even if both work, it is usual to find that again women often become responsible of household tasks and children. And, the worst of all, is that as chores do not produce money, they tend to be almost invisible and little recognized, what supposes a degrading role to be a housewife or a househusband. Some people could say that the place for women to work is at home and, as marriage is forever, husbands will administrate money for both. However, I disagree with this: I believe that economic independence is a first step to avoid abuses and to reach equality in a relationship. To support all this, some data may be provided from the World Health Organization: <Q>.  
      
      In addition to these role problems at home, we can also observe that exist other difficulties for women when they work (but we mustn't forget that men who have less economical power than his partners could follow the same pattern). First, there are many jobs in which women are paid less than men by doing or producing the same. And as we just have seen, this factor is clearly unfair and contributes to maintain women subordinated to men. UGT collects in her Artemisa project, some gender stereotypes that justify overexploitation: they too emotive, dedicate less time to the company, don't fight for salary, and have capacity to obey orders (they are submissive and docile). And second, the highest spheres are occupied by men  - this is called crystal ceiling. There exists discrimination towards women, and there are lots of stereotypes: women don't have capacity of leadership, directresses are men with skirt, and are aggressive, women who triumph are alone and have problems to make goods contacts. In my opinion, these are only justifications transmitted from one generation to another that allow abuses of power. And, as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says <Q> <R>, we must achieve equality in the job sphere to facilitate equality at home.
      
      In my view, many solutions can be proposed in order to make disappear IPV. On the one hand, I think, specific measures should be introduced in a short term to stop mistreatments. First, information must be available in order to make things easy for the victim: telephone numbers to ask for information (e.g. which steps they must follow, legal advise) but also to ask for immediate help and support, and information should be easy to get (general guides could be sent to all the population, as there exist many victims but also is important to make their neighbours, family, friends, and so on aware of the problem in order to help and don't isolate the victim). Second, protection should be provided by means of law, police, and shelters, but also close people (neighbours, family, friends) should be able to help. However, there exists scepticism regarding the effectiveness of police response, Department of Health and Human Services of the U.S. reports that exist <Q>. For instance, police unwilling to intervene, or the fact that<Q> <R>. Another shocking statistics is the one provided by the Government of Canada. <Q>. Of course, there could exist a few people who don't admit these measures for different reasons, for instance, some would think that too much money should be invested in exchange for little profits. However, I strongly believe that our "fair and democratic" world should try to make an effort to make things easier for victims of IPV, since it is often difficult to leave their partner due to many reasons (they love their partners, it presupposes economic resources as well as help and support).
      
      On the other hand, I think it would be very convenient to apply, in a long term, a series of measures aimed at eradicate IPV. Personally speaking, I believe that prevention is very important to achieve our aim. And so, it could be a good idea to make aware adolescents of the problem, since most of them start sentimental relationships and are a vulnerable set because of historical legacy, and also ways to go against this sort of tradition by getting economic independence and don't give in reproducing roles that lead to maintain traditional models of abuse of power  - it could be done from the educational system, media, and families. In addition to this, to ensure the success of the project it would be essential to give answer to the necessities of our current society, that is, by making equal conditions and opportunities between women and men, and by adapting timetables to real life  - if these days, both in a couple work, it should be understood that they need time for chores, children, and, of course, for relax, since we are no more in the time of the Industrial Revolution. And to guarantee these rights, the law should be transformed according to these. Nevertheless, it could be argued again that these measures suppose very great economic efforts. I agree that it would be necessary a great amount of money during a short period of time, but this economic effort appears to me would have as consequence an impressive reduction of mistreatments, and this is the path to definitively change things. In addition, in a long term, money invest would be recover because nowadays lots of money are spent to give victim assistance and work lost. According to the Statistics Canada Violence Against Women Survey, <Q>. I would also add that, in my view, the most we do, the victims will be more conscious and feel more self-confident to finish with the abuse of unhealthy relationship behaviours.
      
      In conclusion, this essay has dealt with the causes of intimate partner violence that, in my view, point at the moment when our civilization began to expand the private property system and establish the model of control prevailing, with some differences, in our present society. On the other hand, I have considered some measures that, in my opinion, would contribute to solve this deeply-rooted problem. Firstly, when abuses exist, information about the problem and ways to solve it is so significant as the existence of services available to protect the victim in an effective way. Secondly, to stop these abuses in the future, I consider it is very important to make aware people of the magnitude of the problem, as well as give the same opportunities to women and men and adapt labour conditions to current necessities. Having described the problem and suggested some basic solutions, my own opinion is that it would be a little bit naïve to think that the violence we have discussed, or whatever kind of violence in our society, is going to disappear completely. Governments over the world have the key to finish with domination, but they, I think, must prefer to centre our attention and energies in the importance of the acquisition of the same roles with respect the productive system  - at least, in the low sphere of production. However, I believe that it is necessary to find some solution to a system that is clearly unfair to many people  - perhaps this problem shouldn't be left simply on governments' hands, since it is necessary also to make people aware of their capacity to change things established by socioeconomic traditions. 
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      

      

