
      These days, when we live a golden era of science experiments and technological innovations, a world of refined whims and self's enticements, infection diseases travel around the world and assume prominence in both developed and developing nations. Probably, Joshua Lederberg, Nobel Laureate microbiologist, was right when said that <Q> . A generation ago, many people imagined infectious diseases to become a public health problem of the past. But nowadays, despite the continual development of antibiotics and vaccines, infectious diseases are the second leading cause of death worldwide - SARS, West Nile, E. coli, monkeypox, HIV/AIDS, and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, to name a few. What makes infectious diseases so difficult to fight is the extraordinary capacity of viruses, bacteria and parasites that cause these diseases to change over time. Besides, 75 percent of today's emerging pathogens jump species -e.g. avian flu <R> . AIDS is the most devastating disease humankind has ever faced. HIV (Human immunodeficiency virus) is a retrovirus that causes AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), a collection of symptoms and infections resulting from the specific damage to the immune system, leading to life-threatening opportunistic infections and tumors <R> . Since the beginning of the HIV epidemic almost 70 million people have been infected with HIV <R> . HIV appeared during the twentieth century, and today it is a pandemic, with an estimated 38.6 million people living with HIV/AIDS worldwide <R> . The UNAIDS and the World Health Organization estimate that AIDS has killed more than 25 million people since it was recognized in 1981. In 2005 alone, AIDS killed 2.4-3.3 million people, of which more than 570,000 were children -Africa has 12 million AIDS orphans <R> . During 2006 around four million adults and children became infected <R> . Every day, around 6,000 become infected with HIV. Thus,  the number of people living with HIV has risen from around 8 million in 1990 to nearly 40 million today, and is still growing. And a third of these deaths are occurring in sub-Saharan Africa, slowing down economic growth and destroying many lives, where around 63% of people are living with the virus <R> . And, 95% of new HIV infections are among people in developing countries <R> . Although antiretroviral treatment reduces both the mortality and the morbidity of HIV infection, access to antiretroviral medication is not available in most poor countries where the problem is greatest, and there is no known cure for this disease. Transmission of HIV occurs through direct contact of a mucous membrane or the bloodstream with a bodily fluid containing HIV -blood, semen, vaginal fluid, preseminal fluid, and breast milk <R> . So, Aids could be prevented in most cases by using condoms and using only once syringes or cleaning them correctly, but there is no cure. In this essay I am going to discuss three main steps concerning to the way of dealing with HIV / AIDS from a range of viewpoints. These steps are education to prevent infection, treatment to alliviate and slow down the disease, and research of a vaccine that destroys the virus. 

      One first step to reduce the number of people being affected is through education, since the only known method of prevention is avoiding exposure to the virus. But what does it mean? There exist different positions concerning this issue. Human Life International (HLI, 1988), a catholic education organization, states that the natural solution to this worldwide disease is <Q>. That is, limiting sex to marriage is a key point to reduce the VIH. Now, we are going to pay attention to a big nation which applies this religious guideline, that is the case of the United States. The Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) of America -member of a international collective organization, Planned Parenthood, that offers both reproductive health and maternal and child health services, advocate of pro-choice positions, comprehensive sex education, and open expression of sexuality <R> - provides us with some data about the line of action of the U.S. in the last decades <R> . On the one hand, schools now block student access to sexual health information in class, at the school library, and through the public library's Internet portals. On the other hand, abstinence-only programs appear to be one of the greatest religious challenges to the nation's sexual health. The fact is that since the 1980s, the "family values" movement has won the collaboration of governments and public institutions in abridging students' constitutional rights. Since in 1981, Congress passed the "chastity law," which funded educational programs to <Q>  to adolescent sex, more and more millions of dollars are assigned for abstinence-only programs each year. This attempt to impose a moral while threatening personal health seems to me an awful thing. Christian fundamentalist groups, which built much of that infrastructure, are one of the main responsible of this kind of union between politics and religion -and remain among the most fervent opponents of medically accurate sexuality education today. I tend to think that it is not accidental but a deliberate support to economical powers -it is useful to give abstinence sexuality education to preserve a traditional system, stable married couples having lots of children are useful to a great nation. However, I consider highly unfair this line of action of the U.S., because none should have the right to decide about other people lives, and if people are not informed they have no chance of choice. So, there is a high number of non-desired pregnancies and of contagious sexual diseases, being young people probably the most vulnerable sector, and of course babies who born with AIDS. 

      Another quite different line of education is the European, where prevention by means of information and education are vital steps to combat the HIV. We have seen how a government of a big nation carries out sexuality education handed to religion. As counterpoint to this American approach to sexuality education, an study of the IPPF European Network and the WHO Regional Office for Europe argues that <Q> <R> . We could consider the following figures of people infected with HIV, provided by the UNAIDS (BBC, 2001), the result of both parameters of education. In 2001, there were one million infected in the U.S., whereas there were 560.000 in Europe. Taking into account that the U.S. has a population of 300 millions and Europe of 400 millions, we can conclude that the proportion of people with AIDS is rather bigger in the States than in Europe, and that a main factor could be found in the alarming lack of information and disinformation of the former. In my opinion, the relation between education and the contagion of AIDS is quite clear after having contrasted all these numbers. Obviously, what is being done in the U.S. is not working for reduce the number of AIDS cases -anyway, it is not the main purpose of their system of education. But I don't think Europe is a panacea for this problem, since it could be done more, but contraceptive knowledge seems to be the right approach to prevent the problem. However, we have just seen two different patterns in developed countries. But, what happen when we see towards underdeveloped countries? Then, as soon as we introduce the poverty factor the figures becomes catastrophic, as UNAIDS gathers: in 2001, there were 28 millions of people infected by the virus in Sub-Saharan Africa (one of each adults is HIV-positive), 3.8 millions of people with the HIV in India and 6 millions in all the South and Southeast of Asia, 1.4 millions in Latin America, one million in Oriental Europe and Central Asia (BBC, 2001). After the addition of poverty, even if these examples appear in a quite different context from the one of the United States, it appears to me to be now more obvious the relation between education and the spreading of AIDS. I think that money is very important for guarantee a good education, but there is also needed intention. As we see in the American case, the U.S. is the first economic world power and we observe a lack of knowledge due to a sexuality education based in abstinence-only programs, whereas in poor countries the lack of knowledge is due to there is neither means for education -in these countries the lack of information in much higher because usually there aren't either newspapers, TV, or radio, and most people are illiterate-, nor contraceptive methods. So, the combination of no information and no contraceptive options to prevent sexual transmission of HIV infection is really terrifying, as the figures have shown. I think that developed countries should be more concerned and involved in reducing aids worldwide -with an intention of eradication. [And the aim of provide means for education and training is essential for the development of these countries.] 

      In addition to education, a second important action to alleviate effects of AIDS is by means of medical treatment, that reduces the risk of infection if begun directly after exposure. The problem is that anti-retroviral drugs are expensive, and the majority of the people infected do not have access to medications and treatments for HIV and AIDS <R> <Q> <R> . The fact is that a vaccine doesn't exist by the moment, however there exists treatment which is not available for all due to patents, that don't allow to adcquire or produce generic at a low cost. So, there is a necessity for antiretroviral treatments but health has become a booming business, and the high prices that impose pharmaceutical multinationals are a cruel reality. 170.000 millions of dollars moves the pharmaceutical industry yearly, and 25 corporations possess the 50% of the total of sales. As a result, they are the only ones that can invest vast sums of money in researching, and the system of patents is responsible for the dependence between small laboratories and the big ones, and for sure, chemical substances needed for production and research only can be dispensed by the main monopolies <R> . I feel that the pharma industry is able of everything in order to obtain maximum benefits as, for instance,  raise or maintain high prices restricting access for millions of people -millions of people die infected by the HIV virus, while a few are happily pocketing large amounts of money. Even the Church pleads <Q> . But the multinational system sets prices that surpass many times the health budgets of most of the countries of the southern hemisphere <R> . The fact that in most cases our world moves by and for economical interests of a few makes me feel sick. How is possible being allowing these global crime? Is it everything corrupted by money? I believe that if only a few control most of the resources, and most of them live in democratic nations, governments -that represent us all- should start joining between them against the monopoly of common goods and the impunity of crimes that affect more to people who have less. In my view, the point is try to do the most good to the most people. And I think that for the achievement of this fair treatment to human beings, people should begin awaking their own consciences being responsible and just with our own selves, and later with our environment. And, in a more short term, I believe that people should express to our politicians that they should press as much as possible the pharmaceutical industry to reduce AIDS treatment costs, in order to give access to it to poor countries, and to everyone that needs it. 

      Third, there is currently no vaccine or cure for HIV or AIDS, but the achievement of one is an essential step to eradicate HIV. In an international conference on AIDS, Norman Levin, with the Harvard Medical School, told that <Q> <R> . Nevertheless, success reaching a vaccine that destructs the virus is vital to halt this pandemic that affects 30 million people around the world, and kill more than two millions and infects more than three millions each year only in Africa (BBC, 2001). A vaccine doesn't exist by the moment, and I would say that pharmaceutical multinationals are again the main problem. Manuel Patarroyo, discoverer of the vaccine against Malaria and Príncipe de Asturias Prize, states <Q> <R> . However, multinationals patent medicaments and also genes and plants -80% of worldwide plants belong to only 14 companies <Q>  <R> . And I agree that this is the way the solution will come. From 1995, South Africa, Brazil, and some other developing countries obtained permission to produce patent-free generic medicaments -but it was only a temporal measure for a ten years period. Nowadays, that some South countries have reached a capacity of production, the agreement has finished, and the WTO (World Trade Organization) don't want to adjust the TRIPS  (trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, created in 1995). In addition, the TRIPS promised a growth of Research and Development but it was far to be fulfilled, points out Dr. Karim Laouabdia -one of the persons in charge of Doctors Without Borders <R> . I suppose that people who manage the pharmaceutical industry are not, at least by the moment, interested in finding a vaccine, but in getting the maximum benefit from antiretroviral treatments. And, meanwhile these people are "letting" 30.000 people die each day because they don't have access to essential medicaments <R>  -I personally would use the verb to kill, in the same way I would call killer, and a judge would find guilt, a person if her is enclosed in a room with another one who is dying poisoned, and the former having the antidote does nothing because she is not going to win a reward. Besides,  I consider that governments should increase budges for researching new treatments to alleviate and slow down the effects of Aids, and most of all for a vaccine to finish with this terrible illness -a vaccine would cost less, and would not require daily treatment; and also they should create pressure over multinationals for the same purposes. But, part of the problem is that there are people in governments who form part of their administration cabinets -notice for example the case of Bayer, a German company, that has 400 former high-level government officials that now are national or regional members of parliament, and that the multinational gather them together monthly <R> . Thus, it is not strange that governments acquit them of all responsibility, giving them impunity, or finance with public funds researches that create private benefits. I think is very important don't tolerate this situation any longer, and these people should be expelled from either the public or private position. There are juridical elements, we only have to make use of them.

      So then, this essay has presented a variety of opinions relating to the way of dealing with HIV / AIDS. Initially, we have seen how important is education to prevent this contagious disease, by contrasting first two developed countries (the U.S. and Europe), and then, comparing those with underdeveloped countries. Then,  we have looked at retroviral treatments as means of reduces the risk of infection after the contact with the virus. And finally, we have pointed out the research of a vaccine as a necessary step to finish with the pandemic. Considering all the points we have discussed, I consider reasonable to reassert that all three measures are required to fight against this pandemic -information, available treatment, and research of a vaccine. But, to be more down-to-earth, money is essential for these aids expenses: preventive campaigns, medicines, and research for vaccines. So, a main aim could be reach real agreements with pharmaceutical multinationals. And, something should be done to avoid that basic necessities as health are tied to private interests -this could be a path towards more true democracies. 


