      Together, the issues of same-sex marriage and adoption by same-sex couples comprise a major part of the ongloing culture war concerning lesbian and gay rights. Only twenty years ago, gay marriage was illegal all over the world and its legalisation was not even an issue. In November 2006 same-sex marriage is legal in four countries, Belgium, Canada ,Netherlands and Spain, and also in the state of Massachusetss (USA) and in many other countries there is an open debate whether gay marriage and child adoption by same-sex couples should be legal or not. In this essay I intend to review the main arguments concerning this controversial issue. 

           Perhaps one of the main discrepancies between gay marriage opponents and proponents lies in the definition of marriage itself. Gay marriage opponents argue that the word marriage as we find it in most dictionariesmeans the union between a man and a woman and that thereforethe term marriage should never be applied when referring to a union between two men or two women. This argument is rather weak as many people would argue that the legitimacy of a marriage cannot be decide based on a formality and that the definition of marriage was adopted a long time ago, when the possibility of a man marrying another man or a woman marrying another woman was simply inconveivable. Some people who are against same-sex marriage are however in favour of an option that would allow homosexuals the possibility to sign a contract that would grand them the same rights heterosexual couples have. This viewpoint seems to be accepted only by the people who have not very strong feelings about the issue of gay marriage while those who oppose it still consider this solution unacceptable and those who  are in favour consider this solution insuficient. 

      
            Some people who are against same-sex marriage defend that the main purpose of marriage is to procreate in order to guarantee the continuation of the species and that since same-sex xouples cannot procreate they should not be allowed to get married. This is perhaps one of the less convincing arguements that same-sex marriage opponents use because the ability to procreate is not a legal prerequisite for marriage and therefore it's no reason to deny same sex couples the rights to get married. Furthermore, if the ability to procreate was considered a factor that determines the legitimacy of marriage, in that case, infertile heterosexual couples, or those who do not wish to have children should not be allowed to get married either. 

            Some people oppose same-sex marriage for religious reason. <Q> <R> . This point is not very convincing as it could be argued that the legalisation of same-sex marriage is just an extension of rights for homosexual couples and its aim is not to undercut the rights of heterosexual couples and that therefore religious institutions should not feel threatened by it. Furthermore, it can be argued that marriage has to do with civil rights while religion has to do with personal convictions and that <Q> <R> . 

           Some conservative people oppose same-sex marriage based on tradition. They claim that traditionally marriage is an act that takes place between a man an a woman and that traditions have to be respected because they are the pillars of society and therefore they cannot be changed overnight. This argument seems to convince only the more conservative people. Other people would argue that the concept of marriage has already undergone significant change. For example, not so long ago the possibility of a white an marrying a black woman or a white woman marrying a black man was simply unthinkable and nowadays, society has changed so much that not only is interracial marriage comonly accepted but what seems unthinkable is the fact that only 50 years ago it was illegal in some countries. <Q> <R> . 

            If the issue of same-sex marriage is controversial, the issue of adoption by same-sex couples is even  more so. some people who are in favour of same-sex marriage are against the idea of gay couples adopting children. The main argument these people use is the negative consequences that being raised by gay couples will have on children. This seems a logical argument and many people seem to agree with it as the welfare of the adopted children should always be the first priority. This argument however has weaknesses because as gay and lesbian associations point out <Q> <R>  .They also claim that these prejudices reduce the number of available homse based on false perception and unfounded evidence about gay parents. 

           Some people oppose gay adoption claiming that society is just not ready for it and that the children of gay couples would be considered different and would, therefore, be bullied or laughed at. Many people find this argument quite convincing but it has weaknesses as it can be argued that society has changed a lot during thte last thirty years and that nowadays the traditional family consisting of a father, a mother and children is just one of the many different families that exist. In an average school of any western world country we can find children who belong to families with mixed race parents, or parents from different relligions or divorced parents. Perhaps not so long ago these children would have been considered different too but these days society has evolved so much that these children from these different families are generally not laughed at on account of these differences so therefore the children of homosecual couples could be equally accepted. 

            Some people argue that being raised by a gay couple can have a negative influence on children's sex identity. This argument doesn't seem very reasonable as there is no conclusive evidence that homosexuality is linked to one's environment, so growing up in a gay couple household would not make a child gay. Furthermore, The American Psychological Association also states that <Q> <R>  

            Some people argue that homosexual activists put their personal desires over the rights of children claiming that what children need is the stability that only married, heterosexual couples can give, <Q> <R> . This argument is not very logical as it can be argued that <Q> <R> . The adoption screening process is very rigorous, including extensive home visits and interviews of prospective parents so it can be assumed that the couples that successfully complete the adoption process will be able to provide a safe stable environment for the adopted children. 

             Perhaps the most controversial argument people who are against adiption by same-sex couples use is that the lesbians and gay men are more likely to molest children. Some people think that homosexuality is a deviation and that homosexuals are perverts so by placing children in the care of homosexual couples we are putting them in serious danger of suffering sexual abuse. This is an insulting and biased argument and it has no scientific base. Legitimate scientific evidence shows that there is no connection between homosexuality and paedophilia and that there are even strudies that show that ninety per cent of child abuse is committed by heterosexual men. 

            In conclusion, In this essay I have reviewed the main ideas we can find in any debate about same-sex marriage and child adoption by same-sex couples. Same-sex marriage opponents defend that marriage is traditionally an instituion between a man and a woman, they oppose it for religious reasons and they also defend that the main purpose of marriage is procreation. On the other hand, it can be argued that the evolution of society calls for a change in the definition of marriage, that religion and civil rights should remain separate and the possibility to procreate should not be a factor to determine the legitimacy of marriage. On the issue of child adoption by same-sex couples, opponents argue that society is not ready for it, that being raised by a gay couple would have a negative influence on children's sexual identity, that children need both a mother and a father and taht homosexuals are more likety to molest children than heterosexuals. On the other hand, people in favour wokd claim that there are so many different types of families these days that children form homosexual couples can no be accepted and not suffer discrimination. They would also defend that living in a gay household has no influence on a child's sexual identity and most of all that homosexuals are by no means more likely to molest children than heterosexuals. The debate is still open and even though there have been advances in the last few years it seems that the issue is far from settled.
