
      I would like to start by pointing out the significant role played by the International Criminal Court of The Hague prosecuting "Crimes against Peace" and "Crimes against Humanity" in different regions. The Hague Conventions of 1906 issued a list of war crimes which has been updated along the century.  After the Second World, the trials of Nürnberg have settled new jurisprudence about the conducts considered "criminal".  Nowadays the list of what can be deemed punishable is almost endless: targeting of civilians, untreated injuries or diseases, landmines, transmission of AIDS trough rape, forced recruitment of child soldiers, summary executions, disappearances, forcing displacement, and so on. Many of these actions have been perpetrated in quite recent conflicts of Sarajevo, Bosnia, Rwanda, Congo, Liberia, Lebanon, etc.  Anyway we know that the history of atrocities committed in war times is almost as old as the history of human being. Although in the present time the technology brought even higher destruction capacity, the point of view I'm going to unfold further down is that we can perceive certain progress in the field of the human rights through the competence and moral reference of the international Criminal Court, with the benefits for the international community of having such high ranked court shaping up somewhat the ideal of universal jurisdiction. 
      
      Of course I should stress that the refusal of some main states to accept its judicial boundaries including their citizens, implies a significant constraint in the effectiveness of the international justice. Let  me start with the rejection of the United States to ratify the Rome Statute, which evidently supposes contradictions with its supportive attitude to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (created by the United Nations on May 25, 1993) and with its pretension of moral leadership in the world.  As well as the States some relevant nations like Russia, China and India have refused the international jurisdiction over their troops.   Such absenteeism leaves lamentably significant room for worldwide illegal activities.  As the spreading of injustice sense may act as destabilizing factor, I hope that sooner or later 
the common sense will prevail giving way to consensus for a worldwide implementation of the supranational judicial body.  Anyway at the time being I am afraid, some of the evidence shows that we are far from reaching agreement on this issue:  the United States apart from its refusal, is trying to reach bilateral agreements with several countries, in order to get the US citizens out of the reach of the Court.   However I would like to mention that this fact is not at all granting them full immunity, as they can be object of prosecution on case of having committed offence in a country which accepts the enforcement capacity of The Hague Court.  I can figure out the smile of those detractors concerning the realistic chances of such hypothetical cases, but it seems to me that it could happen in some given situations, and at least we have the reference and theoretical competence of a court belonging to the international community.  Regarding the above mentioned bilateral agreements of the United States, in Paraguay the authorities decided recently not to prolong any more the immunity status of 500 US troops stationed in the country.  Sharing the point of view of the believers in a universal justice, I applaud this decision.
      
Another point I am going to deal with is the question of the extreme circumstances around war situations, bearing in mind that such scenarios are fertilized fields to let the seed of uncontrollable violence grow up, and where all too often laws of war are broken.    It is resulting from the complexity and variety of situations, and once again due to the fact that excesses and crimes may be committed by all sides involved in a given conflict.   Despite this factor we still have thoughtless persons appealing for the use of the force in the first instance for solving conflicts.  I feel that they forget the fact that when the hell breaks loose the reactions are unpredictable and every part involved will have painful casualties. I would like to mention the version from someone experiencing in his skin the dramatic scenario of war;  in "the secret letter from Iraq" Time, October 6, 2006 posted anonymously by a Marine officer containing  crude descriptions of the war environment: <Q> .  Going on with the question of the confronted passions resulted from any armed conflict, I would like to reproduce hereunder the comments of another privileged witness of the chaos, <R>  <Q> . After this reference about the attitudes in the occupied country he disqualifies as unrealistic the pretensions of democratizing the country and concludes that: <Q> .   A recommendation that is clearly taking into account the nationalistic feelings arisen as a consequence of the occupation. 
        
      At this point I'm going to focus on the fact that the confrontations all too often also give way to irrational nationalistic passions. We have the paradox that quite often war criminals who had been indicted are considered "heroes" in their home countries. 
Let me here comment an example:  in 1996  Serb army officials were given permission to attend a public funeral and pay homage to Djordje Djukjic (Serbian military officer who had been in charge of the Bosnian Serb forces and was released before his decease from the U.N. International Tribunal's custody due to his severe illness).  And Serbia is constantly refusing to allow the extradition of indicted war criminals while its authorities are somewhat obstructing the prosecution by not replying or delaying the requests from the tribunal.  Neither Croatia is particularly eager to collaborate with the International Tribunal and except Saso Aleksouski, none of the indicted persons residing in this country could be extradited.  However I would like to point out in contrast with normal citizens they are not really enjoying freedom of movements being obliged to remain for ever in their countries.  Furthermore it seems to me that they should be aware that their fate can change some day as the European countries as well as the States and Japan are currently exerting pressure on the issue of the extraditions by postponing loans.  Regarding the point I mentioned above about the consideration of "heroes" for former perpetrators let us have a look at what happens in the last mentioned country:  in 1978 1.068 convicted war criminals were secretly enshrined in the Yasukuni Shrine where they are now public venerated.  When I come to the conclusion that the gloomy emotions stemming from the nationalisms are founded in any folk it leads me to a worrying reflection on the abyss of the human condition.  Nevertheless I try myself to stay away from pessimism and find encouraging the words 
of the judge Patricia M. Wald while summarizing the achievements of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia after having indicted several perpetrators: <Q>. 
Lastly I would like to point out the function of the media in the divulgation of the public affairs. Although I feel that we have to be attentive with the peculiar way the news may be displayed as they are also quite frequently object of manipulation in order to exert interested influence, we can observe everything from different sides and later on discern the truth.  From my point of view the media, in interaction with the public opinion, is increasingly contributing to determine responsibilities, consequently I believe that nobody immerse in the decision-makers' arena can feel safe from repercussions of wrongdoings.  Also on the theme of pursuing declared criminals the media has quite often become a clue factor by locating and denouncing hidden perpetrators, whose track had been lost.
      
      I have dealt with the encomiastic work of the International Criminal Court, which faces the current constraints imposed by some rulers; I have drawn a reflection on the dramatic circumstances of any war scenario and on the nationalistic passions, factors which propitiate the break of the war laws, and finally I have glanced at the role played by the media in determining responsibilities and denouncing criminals.  In conclusion, and despite temptations of scepticism I am convinced of the convenience of having an international entity which apart of its law enforcement capacity, it may serve as a moral reference in our convulsed world.  I hope that the international community, being aware that impunity is threatening peace, will be increasingly engaged with the implementation of universal jurisdiction. 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   






