



      Genetic engineering is now shaping up to be one the most controversial questions and to a certain extent fascinating as well. Since the H.G.P. was completed in 2003, the scientific community has been speeded up the progress in genetic research. In the present times the media is reflecting the increasing social debate because of the religious and moral implications with the creation of embryos for assisted reproduction and for biomedical research.  Also the completion of the sequencing of the genomes of animal and plants which are relevant for food production gave way to immense possibilities of agricultural exploitation.  Now there is generalized proliferation of genetic technology which is being implemented for animal and human nutrition.  The main world crop producers like US, Argentina and Canada are actively applying GE (Genetic engineering) in their farming processes, having these countries also refused to ratify the Cartagena Protocol on Bio safety.  So the current scenarios of new disquieting technologies raise concern on the consequences of GE farming and ethical debate about what should be the limits of experimenting with human embryos.   I am going to discuss hereunder different points of views on these subjects and outline some reflections on the moral question of genetic research.
					
	The ecologic activist organization Greenpeace, expressing its frontal opposition to all kind of genetic patents on plants, animals and humans, affirms that <Q> <R> .  This article goes on denouncing that, there is lack of public information concerning GE ingredients in the food chain, and it urges the labelling of them.  In this aspect I coincide with the necessity of a strictly regulation regarding the labelling of GE products, as it is inadmissible to deprive the people of their right of knowing what really they are consuming.    Concerning the pursing of new medical tools I think that it can be to certain extent legitimate but avoiding or at least minimizing the eroding side effects, by developing protocols of precautions, which have to be strictly observed by the international scientific community and corporations.  In my opinion it is convincing the aspect of possible applications for vaccines and drugs.     However regarding this item I agree with the point of view of the ecologists that it should not be an acceptable reason for the spreading of massive genetic experimentation at any cost.  On the item of the patents above mentioned I share somewhat their opinion in the sense that it is necessary to restrain the commercial voracity of some major drug corporations reflected by a generalized acquisition of questionable rights on natural formulas, but the patenting issue is so ample and complex that further considerations are beyond the scope of this essay.  Anyway it seems to me that we are in fact witnessing a sort of frenetic race in genetic research whose exactly consequences are unpredictable. 


	The same organization also warns about the current proposals in Mexico for breaking a long standing moratorium for cultivating genetically modified maize in the country, and demands the govern rejection of such implementation   <R> .  It appears to me that a systematic opposition is not always sounded.  It is reasonable that a straightforward implementation of GE in all farming is not recommendable, but at the same time I think that it is necessary to evaluate the particular circumstances of each country before expressing drastic opinions and adopting a position on the issue.   In the case of Mexico the maize is a crucial element of the everyday's diet, therefore it has to be available at accessible price in a country with extended sectors of non wealthy population. It has been widely reflected in the media the recent tumultuous situation caused by an excessive increment of the sweet corn price affecting mainly the poor people.  So I would like to stand out that the country is currently faced with a difficult choice between the moratorium prolongation and meeting its nutrition demands. In my view this situation requires a deep consideration about the implications of the particular application of GE assessing the effects on the agriculture and above all on the well- being of the Mexican people, in this sense it seems to me that it is required to have more contrasted information on the long term effects of GE nutrition.     

	Let us now have a look at the controversial question of genetic research with human embryos. In May 2006 it has been approved in Spain a much contested law allowing the genetic selection of embryos with the purpose of being later on used as donor for an ill brother <R> .  The newspaper echoed the declaration of the Health Minister Mrs. Elena Salgado stating <Q> .  The prerequisite of authorization is competence of the National Committee of Human Assisted Reproduction which will assess every particular case. This law brought bitter criticism from the Catholic Church and political sectors like the PP (Popular Party) and Unió Democrática de Catalunya (UCD) which voted against the law.  The Popular Party qualified the law as eugenic, meaning that it can be targeted to the improvement of the human race by the application of genetic selection. From my point of view it is in fact a latent risk behind, as it could be the frame for extending the genetic selection.  It is clearly that the legislators being aware of this fact have imposed restrictions as each case must be submitted to the assessing of the National Committee of Human Assisted Reproduction, but I wonder whether it is enough to prevent from misuses of the legal frame.  The other side of the coin and an essential aspect of the issue is the anguishing situation of families having a child affected by a disease susceptible of being healed by a transplant operation.  I think this aspect has clearly exerted decisive influence on the law markers, and it is hard to disagree with right of the afflicted families to have at least a chance of lightening their despair.  But on the other hand I wonder at how can be parents be entitled to decide about the use of the body of their future child.  It does not appear to me quite fair that a child must be born predetermined to undergo a transplant operation.  Concerning the number of families susceptible of benefiting with the law, I find the quantity of 150 not relevant statistically speaking.

      There are others extended applications of genetic technology for infertility treatments such as vitro fertilization and cryoperservation for cancer treatment, which are being implemented in public and private institutes.  In the proliferation of genetic private specialized clinics, we can see evidence of the profit pursuing behind the genetic issue, and it does not appear to be that always ethics is ruling their activity.  For example, the biomedical research with embryos for any purpose involves always the destruction of potential human life as a great number of them have to finally get discarded. And what is the existential status of the human embryo? Does it not have any right?  As it is the early stage of life of each person, I believe that it is a fact requiring moral assessing to what extent the pursuing of helping others justify the current genetic pioneering.  Despite the moral questionable aspects it seems to me that the genetic research and implementation goes on and the constraints do not appear to be clearly defined yet.  Concerning the above mentioned proliferation of private genetic clinics I am convinced that the involvement of commercial interests in addition to the unscrupulousness of some professionals make an effective control almost impossible. Furthermore I think that despite the moral questionable aspects there is an increasing flexibility from side of the governments and a society that is getting used to live with unsolved moral dilemmas as it happens with the abortion. 

	Summing up we have seen how the GE farming is reshaping the agricultural landscape of the world while the exactly long term consequences on animal and human nutrition remain still unknown.  In this sense I find encouraging the action of the ecologists promoting the public consciousness, although sometimes biased and too radical.  Regarding the genetic technology applied to humans, it is undeniable the right of several despaired families and patients of having legitimate expectations of healing. 

But at the same time we have mentioned further implications such as the risks of an extended use of genetic selection for an unnatural improvement of the human race, added to the ethical aspect of the manipulation with embryos. Another consideration was the profit pursuing favouring the extension of irresponsible GE applications. On the whole I think that there is not at all a lack of awareness among the key actors and decision makers on the matter, as they generally assume the slippery nature of the question, for instance let's have a look a one of the reflections of a report published by the US government <R> <Q> . It was stated four years ago, hence forward the genetic research went on with an increasing reduction of restrictions. It appears to be clear that pragmatism reigns, I feel because of the impossibility of finding a univocal answer to the moral question.   






















