
      The political debate over the prostitution theme continues opened. There are different points of view between those who came out against the regulation of prostitution and those who promote its regulation as another economic activity, with their corresponding fiscal and labour obligations. Behind the dilemma if it should or shouldn't be legalized, there is more than the pragmatic solution of those who consider the women and men who exert prostitution as "workers of sex". When we examine sex as a trade, the combination of philosophy, cultural precedence, religious influence and politics made by each country, select how to handle the theme in its own way. In this essay, I'm going to analyse and discuss objectively a number of different aspects concerning the legalization of prostitution.
      One of the strongest arguments in favour of the legalisation of prostitution is that of the freedom of choice. Many people said that if a person decides that what gives in exchange for money is not a knowledge of computers, not ideas to sell a car, but his / her body and that their labour function implies that another person enjoys sex, if that person does it freely, without being compelled or that another person takes part of the earnings to himself (exploiter) we could said that this work is worthy, legal and totally valid. But, when this practice is performed by urgent needs which could overshadow yourself (for example alcoholism or drug addiction), illegal trafficking, etc Here the freedom is cutting off.  This argument is rather important because what makes slavery and human exploitation an abusive practice is the lack of freedom. An exercise practised from the freedom is not harmful, depraved or offensive.  
      Nowadays, many legal systems penalize prostitutes (and their customers in some cases) for what some people said is doing for "consenting adults". The state economy is spending on law enforcement efforts to catch them with results such as overburdened courtrooms. The prostitutes (and their customers) pay their fines and are back to the streets quickly in a revolving-room process. In this way, some people could argue that a reinforcement of sentences or a major police action would avoid such situations. This point is rather convincing, but this is a doubled-edged sword because the application of zero tolerance in certain zones, would only move the prostitution to other places with fewer police means increasing in this way police costs, the judicial activity, the number of sentences and the penitentiary population.
      It is possible to suggest that legalizing prostitution would prevent "underground prostitution" that occurs today. When adult men or women decide to exchange money for sex it is a personal choice under their personal freedom in a democratic society. However, one of the problems derived from this practice is the prostitution of teens. When minors decide to prostitute themselves, they were often manipulated by opportunists who exploit them. In this way, legalizing prostitution would prevent these instances through regulation. Consider this, making prostitution legal by means of protect minors is rather important because the legalization would allow the act to be managed instead of ignored. Pimps and organized crime figures that regularly threat kids on subhuman levels would be controlled no longer.
      On the other hand, it is reasonable to argue that the legalization of prostitution has disadvantages. When the legal barriers disappear, also disappear social and ethical values regarding the fact of treating people as products. If the demand of prostitution increases, it would stimulate "buy" prostitutes for sex in a permissible social environment of major acceptability. In fact, the legalization of prostitution would send a message to new generations of treating men or women as sexual products, and that the prostitution is a form of amusement without risk. Furthermore, the influence of the mass media about this theme, would develop a bad pattern on the behaviour of young people who become saturated by wrong models that television, the Internet, video games, newspapers, music and radio show them. This arguments are rather weak because with a good education, kids would appreciate that to be a prostitute is another labour area which has seen affected for the manipulation and the extortion, but if it was a work controlled and ruled the only thing that would interfered, are the personal ethics that we wanted to impose over it.    
      In this case, the morality is often connected to the attitudes of some religions. For example, the Catholic Church position is condemnatory. The legislation that would allow prostitution is considered  "unnatural" and it is warning that such permissiveness would  <Q> <R>  . In this way, Christian sexuality is allowable only in marriage and only with one partner. However, many people could argue that Christians traditions tried to control people by repressing their natural sexual desires, which may result in more sexually frustrated people on the streets. This argument seems to make sense, because many people could become aggressive and are far more likely to sexually harass, abuse or rape men or women than those who are sexually happy and fulfilled.
      Another point would be that a system based on the legalization of the prostitution that puts "workers of sex" under checkups and certificates of health as an obligation, and not to the customers is shamelessly discriminatory for them. The checkups of health that are "only for sex workers" haven't got any sense for the public health because such control protects them from the AIDS (Acquired immune deficiency syndrome) or from the STD (sexually transmitted diseases), that the customers can transmit, and which are mainly those who do it to the prostitutes. Nevertheless, It is argued that the legalization of brothels or other establishments for "controlled prostitution" protect prostitutes by the obligation of using condoms. This point is rather convincing, although the impositions concerning the use of the condom is left in hands of those who are in the prostitution, and the supply of extra money to work without it, is an insistent pressure.
      
      Additionally, some people argue that many prostitutes want neither to register nor to submit to medical reviews (as law requires in certain countries where the prostitution has been legalized), to avoid been exploited by "new businessmen" who would employed them at bad hygienic conditions or threatened them to tell the truth to their families. So, the legalization of the industry makes them vulnerable since they would lose their privacy. However it could be said the contrary; the legalization would reduce the clandestinely, and illegal prostitution on the streets. Furthermore, the regularization would allow them to have a register and a medical periodic review. In this way, the argument of privacy is rather weak because it is supposed that they work from the freedom of choice, so if they doesn't considering it acceptable, they would not fear to lose their privacy.
      Finally, the official position of governments goes from the total prohibition to the complete authorization. In this way, those who were against the legalization used to say that in many countries as in Holland, governments present themselves as defenders of the programs and policies who fight against the traffic whereas they eliminate all the legal impediments directed to procurement and brothels at the same time. In this sense, that contributes to sexual slave traffic and child prostitution. However, it is said that laws that legalize prostitution have no reference to sexual slave traffic or child prostitution, in fact, if it exists in those places where prostitution is allowed, as in Holland or Australia, is for an insufficient control of the government towards the organized trade. This is the most important point of the whole essay, because if we deal with laws between the prohibition and the complete authorization, we could find a possible solution. Therefore, some of the evidence show that the government should apply certain legal measures to improve the conditions of the exercise (and in consequence, of life) of those people that realize the activity of prostitution, This would be the most realistic way of approaching this social problem (with such measures, there might be undertaking others against white slave trade, sexual exploitation, etc)  
      In conclusion, there are different aspects concerning the legalization of prostitution. In favour of the proposal, the main arguments are that people has the freedom of choice to decide what to do with their bodies; that the reinforcement of sentences against prostitution instead of the legalization would increase police costs, the judicial activity, the number of sentences and the penitentiary population and that the legalization would protect minors of being captured, controlling pimps and organized crime figures. Against the proposal, the main arguments are that if legal barriers disappear, social and ethical values regarding the fact of treating people as products would disappear too (which could influence over young people); that the regulation would favouring the degradation of the public morality; that it could affect the public health and that the legalization could attempt over prostitutes privacy. On balance, the legalisation of prostitution might be see from a middle point where the government should apply certain legal measures to improve the conditions of the exercise (and in consequence, of life) of those people that realize the activity of prostitution in a law established between the prohibition and the complete authorization.
