
Life is, from a technical point of view, the most important juridical good that a person could possess, that's the reason why the Law must guarantee our protection against any damage that could put it in danger. The fact that the Legislation legitimises the death penalty constitutes, therefore, a paradox concerning the debate for the existence and application of this sentence, whose implications go beyond the merely juridical cases and affect fields as morality, politics and sociology. In this essay, I'm going to analyse a number of different perspectives concerning the death penalty. I will also support some arguments for the complete fulfilment of sentences or the life imprisonment instead of the death sentence.

One of the strongest arguments in favour of the legalisation of the death penalty is that of deterrence. It is based on the idea of creating certain "counter-motivations" in the potential transgressors. That is to say, it could be used to discourage would-be criminals from unlawful actions. Undoubtedly, potential criminals would balance advantages and disadvantages of committing a crime. In this way, the death sentence would prevent them to kill for fear of losing their own life. This argument is rather weak because, in my view, those who commit a murder rarely act rationally in the moment of the crime. It isn't very probable that the possibility of being executed in the future goes through their mind, especially through those who kill under the influence of drugs or alcohol, those who suffer mental illness or those who can't understand the consequences of their actions (as children or teenagers).

Another point would be that a just society requires the death penalty for the taking of a life, that is to say: "retribution". One of the principles of justice says that <Q> <R> . In this way, many people argue that the execution is a way of restoring the balance; the criminal suffers in proportion to the offence. However, I think that this argument is less convincing because the criminal judgments and the promise of an execution results a seemingly attractive tool to canalise the anger. In fact, it is associated with revenge, the "eye for an eye" or "a life for a life" since it is exercised in cold blood; it is premeditated, awaited, executed and in many cases celebrated. 

In addition to this point, it has been said that <Q> <R> . The hell the innocent family and friends of criminals must also go through in the time leading up to and during the execution will often cause them serious trauma for years afterwards. In this way, a death sentence brings finality to a horrible chapter in their lives. However, this argument is, in my view, a double-edged sword because many victims of the crime have reported that the endless repetition of their tragic histories on the media, the judgements and the years and years of appeals only serve to increase their stress and delay their treatment more than the necessary. In this way, I think that the families of the victims of murder would be more beneficiated if the resources used in the long process of executing someone, were used to provide them other services such as counsellors or psychologists.  

Many people in favour of the capital punishment support that the death penalty is, in economic terms, more profitable than the alternatives presented to this sentence <R> . In fact, it is irreplaceable because it is more effective than the life imprisonment which results more expensive and unbearable to the prisoner. From my point of view, this argument is rather weak because it is necessary to calculate more than the costs of the execution, but also, the cost of the whole judicial process, that is to say, appeals, judges, etc. Additionally, I think that the purpose of the punishments imposed by the authority must not be only sanctioning the criminal behaviour, but also to rehabilitate the convict. 

On the other hand, one of the strongest arguments against the death penalty is that of the "Human Rights". Many countries execute their citizens by several ways: gallows, firing squads, decapitation, electric chair, stoning, etc. Crimes punished with death go from violent crimes as murdering, rapes or armed assault, to not violent crimes as prostitution, drug trafficking or the acceptance of bribes. Nevertheless, the death penalty is not merely a question of penal justice, (independently of the reason that the government adduces to execute or the execution method used); the death sentence is a question of human rights. The meaning of the human rights is precisely that one can never appeal to certain methods to protect society because this use infringes the same values that make that the society deserves protection. 

I think that this is one of the most important arguments because the third article of the human rights stipulates: <Q> <R> . As we can appreciate, the third article establishes the existence of life as a fundamental right because it is "the guarantee" for the existence of the rest rights of the human person. However, it seems to me that this argument is less convincing because the right to life implies a principle of universal balance. When someone breaks this balance depriving another person of life, this one is rejecting his proper right to life. So on, for the previous argumentation the death sentence can't be considered, in my view, a violation of the human rights, to be more accurately, it can't be considered a violation of the right to life of those who broke the balance depriving the right to life of their victims.

Another point would be the arbitrariness and discrimination. The fact of sentencing a person to death is often determined not only for the nature of the crime, but for the ethnic or social origins, the financial resources (many can't afford their own lawyer) or the political opinions of the accused. With respect to race, studies have shown that a death sentence is far more likely where a white person is murdered than where an afro-American person is murdered. <Q> <R> . These arguments seem to be rather convincing because the death sentence, in my view, is arbitrary. Depending on the country or state where someone is accused he or she receive death penalty or not, does it justice? I think that when race or other arbitrary factors determine who dies and who lives, the death penalty must not be used. 

Finally, the strongest argument against the death sentence is the risk of executing an innocent. Since 1973, more than 121 American prisoners sentenced to the death penalty escaped to the death because new proofs of their innocence appeared. Some of them were very nearly of being executed after spending many years sentenced to death <R> . In all these cases there were several factors that were repeated: wrongful police behaviour, slightly trustworthy confessions, inadequate lawyers, etc. Other American prisoners have been executed in spite of serious doubts about their guilt. In this way, many people argue that democratically speaking, the guarantees are fundamental. The accused must have guarantees to be able to check his / her process and even his / her penalty in case that his innocence was finally proved. When the death sentence is applied, there are no guarantees. The execution is an irreversible sentence that cannot be corrected in case of mistake. The condemned still have guarantees. The executed, on the other hand, do not have them.

I think that this argument is the strongest one because it is enough with one innocent executed by mistake or malevolence to invalidate the supposed benefits of the death sentence. Could we sleep knowing that the last thoughts of the innocent were towards the real guilty that was unpunished? In this way, I strongly believe that the most logical alternative in order to avoid the death sentence that has been given across the history is the total fulfilment of sentences or the life imprisonment because, at the end, the death sentence is not but a revenge against the accused, who in the time that has passed between the judgment and his execution, could have modified his behaviour.

In conclusion, there are different perspectives concerning the death penalty. In favour of the proposal, the main arguments are the use of the death sentence to discourage would-be criminals from unlawful actions (deterrence); the concept of retribution (which requires the death penalty for the taking of a life); to give closure to the victim's families who have suffered so much and that the costs of the death sentence results more profitable than the alternatives. Against the proposal, the main arguments are that the death sentence attempts against "The Human Rights"; the arbitrariness and discrimination (the fact that sentencing someone to death is often determined not only for the nature of the crime, but for the ethnic or social origins, the financial resources or the political opinions of the accused); and the risk of executing an innocent.



















