
      During human beings history, people have developed and suffered some discrimination due to religion, tradition and social backgrounds. One of the most common kinds of discrimination along different cultures and countries is the sex discrimination issue. Nowadays, there are lots of social groups that still suffer of discrimination by sexual motifs. Experts have studied and classified them in some categories according to the gender characteristic or sexual behaviour they're attached or criticised by. In this essay, certain kinds of sexism (term that cover all possible sexual discriminations) are going to be exposed and analysed.
      
      Firstly, according to Wikipedia, Sexist beliefs are defined by sociologists as <Q>. However, several religious communities, such as Christian or Jewish communities have considered intersexes people as evil creatures, product of the devil and pariah. They have only distinguished into two possible varieties: men and women.
Andreah Johnson, representing World Association of Gays, Lesbians and Transexuals have claimed in a recent interview that these communities don't have the right to decide what gender or sex an intersexed person have to consider himself/herself.
He has said that everyone would decide his/her sexual condition by themselves. 
	
      Secondly, historically most cultures (with a few exceptions, such as Indian cultures) hold that males and females are different entities with separate gender roles and responsibilities. Regarding their beliefs, children who are born with both/ambiguous sexual characteristics are either killed or have one of their sexual characteristics surgically removed. By the way, the unnecessary surgery has often been carried out without the knowledge or consent of the parents. Some people view this as "genital mutilation" and criticized the perceived need by modern western medicine to "correct" that, which is just a natural probability: in fact, many genetics have proved that these malformations are frequently recessives. Although, many cultures consider that, from birth, intersexed individuals are neither in the male "box" or the female "box" and the classification used by most policies and laws of government fails to reflect this. In many countries, they are secluded in monasteries or used in prostitution. However, recently Sacha Bran, a famous intersexed writer, has published a book in which his memories and critics are expressed, doing a vindication to intersexed people: they are another gender and want the same human rights an civil consideration than the rest of people, not only the margination and suffering they actually live. 
      
      In addition, traditionally, transsexes have been viewed by the mainstream opinion as having psychological problem with "gender identity disorder". Following Wikipedia again, <Q> 
      
      Transexuality refers to the condition of being self-identified with opposite sex from birth. Many "women-only" events and organizations have been criticized for rejecting transfemales; similar situations have occurred for "men-only" events and organizations for rejecting transmales. Transsexed people are also often the target of hate crimes, as the traditional notion of masculinity and femininity is often perceived to be threatened by those who have chosen to adopt a different sex later in life. Many politicians and religious associations don't agree with these changes of sexuality, insulting transsexed and punishing them by verbal and sometimes physical pennies. It is also possible to argue that transsexuals defend that many people consider themselves as a man in the body of a woman or a woman in a man's body, like the simile that feminists used in their first manifestations (in the case of women, they viewed themselves as a mad woman in an attic in a world doomed by men). They see themselves as people caged in a body that don't correspond with their expectations. Transsexed apply for support of politicians to regulate change of sex laws. Also, they defend they should have same human rights as the rest of people. Nowadays, there are rules that support their requests, such as Sex Discrimination Act of 1984 that makes sex discrimination against the law, including transsexed.
      For other part, certain forms of sexual discrimination are illegal in many countries, but almost most countries have laws that give special rights, privileges or responsibilities to one sex or two sexes. The term "sexism" usually implies <Q> . In many traditions, women have been considered as the weaker sex, and also in a lower status than men, they weren't recognised by laws during many centuries. On the one hand, this situation could be criticised because heterosexual men depend on women as lovers, sons and fathers. Nowadays, in newspapers, TV, internet... or also in the current life women have demonstrated that they aren't as weaker as they were supposed because they can do the same jobs as men. On the other hand, in several cultures, women still have a lower status, for example in Arabian background women are less than a child or in Christian cult women can't do ecclesiastic works such as priest. However, feminine movement promotes women's rights against sexism of female people by addressing equality under the law, political representation, etc.
      Moreover, there is sexism against men. Christina Hoff Sommers have charged that it has been created as a consequence of radical feminism. Regarding her words <Q>.  Another source of sexism is the "old patriarchy" and "old matriarchy", which has historically restricted and limited the role of males in other parts of society and has looked down upon male homemakers. But it is possible to argue that this movement has less relevance in the media although there are, according to recent statistics, more women than men in the world. It is said that one of the main reasons is that the feminist movement (and its varieties) is relatively very modern and it's not present in all cultures at the same level.
      Following male and female sexism, it is possible to suggest Gender discrimination as an object of debate that is discrimination based on gender. This is considered a form of prejudice and is illegal in most countries. Exceptionally, it is often institutionalized in non-secular Islamic countries. There are some laws that prohibit wage discrimination by employers and organizations based only on sex. According to the Equal Pay Act of 1963 <R> , it requires that <Q>  Most people in western cultures agree that men and women should have the same rights and they have to be equally treated in jobs.
      Finally, some express, as Alice Schwarzer (a German feminist, habitual writer of magazine Emma), the view that pornography is contributing to sexism, because in usual pornographic performances for male spectators the actresses are limited to and presented as "pleasure-objects", whereas when female spectators are objectifying male actors, has also been identified as sexism. On the other hand, some famous pornographic actresses have publicly stated that they do not feel themselves to be victims of sexism against females. In fact, many female pornographic stars and sex-positive feminists view pornography to be progressive, since they are paid immense amounts of money for performing "consensual" acts, and also since many directors and managers of the industry are women as well. But, still other feminists, out of the sex-positive feminism and anti-pornography feminism, feared that censoring profit-oriented pornography would lead to censoring legitimate non-profit female expression of their sexual experience. It is possible to argue that, regarding Wikipedia <Q> .
	Definitely, those arguments that attempt to other people's freedom (even in sexual terms) seem to be more irrational than the others that defend sex and genre liberty. On one hand, they seem to be based in ancient rights and rules that don't agree with every people, almost the people that don't fit in the standard prototypes (such as non-heterosexual people in a patriarch's society). It is possible to say that religions that defend the equality in all cases margin people with different genre or sexual characteristics that don't follow the established as good ones (that is to say, heterosexual men and women). On the other hand, the arguments that emarginated people use seem to be more comprehensive and respectable with other people's sexuality or genre, except in radical exceptions; it is proved by Science that all people are genetically equal in the basis but different in sexual manifestations (including genre). Moreover, it's also possible to claim that legislations should recognize every people as equal under the laws without favouritisms. 

      In conclusion, it seems that sex discrimination is a controversial theme, because many reactions and beliefs, that most times are opposite, take place in different cultures and legislations: on the one hand, there seems to be some groups that suffer discrimination because of their sexual condition or gender characteristics and reclaim same rights and equality under laws and social conditions. On the other hand, there are other groups, such as religious or political groups that defend traditional beliefs and rules that discriminate and mistreat certain groups that don't agree with their ideas. Giving a perspective of future, it is possible to suggest that sexual condition shouldn't influence in legal or social terms and everyone would be free to choose a sexuality or new condition by respecting other people election and this should be registered by legislations. 



