

      TV has become a common item in families and in many cases it has been settled as an elemental device in most houses. With a moderate use, TV can be considered a good tool of communication. Through TV, news, movies, sports and a wide variety of contents can be viewed by several million people. But TV is not only supposed to be an object that provides entertainment; it also has brought negative consequences to our society in some levels: lack in family and social relationship, several mental disturbs caused by abusing its consumption, etc. Although it easily provides information to people and it's useful, I'll take in consideration some alternatives. In this essay I'm going to develop some arguments about TV role in society and I'll give my own view of the exposed ideas.

	Firstly, according to the web-page The Universal Doctrine, <Q> .Taking apart some comic comments, I agree that one of the most spending time action played by most people is watching TV. 
It seems to me that people watch TV because it's a cheaper way of entertainment. Moreover, I think it can show different contents and the main reason of its massive use I guess it's that people prefer being seated or laid in their sofas only moving their fingers to change the channel with the remote control instead of doing other activities.

	Many people believe that nowadays societies tend to be lazier and that they promote sedentary kinds of life. Mary O'Hara (famous journalist) argues that TV contributes in general to create the idea of modelling bodies and exemplary life through publicity, by spots announcing revolutionary products for body and cosmetics and that television makes the viewer completely passive because everything is presented to them without any effort on their part. But another reasonable argument is that in many cases people don't have enough time to practice physical activities because of their jobs or the time they spend to manage their families. In my view, TV consumption and other physical activities, such as playing sports are compatible in the sense that people could distribute and organize their daytime to spend time watching TV and practice sports. In my opinion, publicity about body care is filled of lies. I recognise that it seems more comfortable to stay warm in home watching TV and nothing more than playing sports, but it has been tested by World Health Organization that physical activities improve people's health.

	According to recent studies, watching TV is one of the most popular hobbies of people, but it has become less popular in young people; several students in the study have said that they tend to change the TV to other activities, such as the internet or videogames. Unfortunately, many doctors reflect in their studies that young people see sports as boring and difficult hobbies. These experts argue that because of this lack of active kind of life, young people tend to suffer body diseases, such as obesity and bone pain. I think that playing sports is one of the most entertaining and interesting way of being sane and happier, because regarding World Health Organization, physical activities are better to health than a soft life based on passive activities. Also, I think there are some sports to be practiced and if it one represents difficulties to people, the thing to do is just to choose another sport. In my opinion not every people can be good in a certain sport because of its characteristics or people's condition. In addition, I think that the substitution of TV consumption to videogames or internet is not the best solution, because they could provoke addiction as TV could do if they are not used reasonably, that is in my view by controlling the time of consumption.
      Yusuf Al-Khabbaz, from the web-page Muslimedia, says that <Q> . Many writers, such as Yusuf, argue that people no longer see the need to read books when they can just watch it on television. I think it's possible to argue that TV helps to in popularizing many literary masterpieces, but the point is that it seems to me that books should be more important in people's life and it should be read by themselves, not by seeing TV adaptations every time. For me, reading a book never will be worst than see the adaptation, because I believe you're your imagination is better than a movie. I agree that much people can't bear read a book but in my opinion to read is one of the most interesting activities to learn and enjoy.
      Although many people say that many television programs introduce people to things they never thought of before and have never heard of before, in their opinion there are also another programs that do not maintain high quality standards. On the other hand, most experts such as Tajik Leader argue that <Q> . It seems to me that TV is an unquestionable way of communication, because compared with radio and newspaper, everything on television is more lifelike, vivid, and real. However, I believe that the information received by television is a kind of second-hand experience, so the viewer don't feel and understand it at all. I strongly believe that programs such as reality-shows and talk-shows don't contribute positively to society values, because they don't see to me neither interesting nor instructive. Furthermore, I think there are a considerable variety of programs on television, and I argue that viewers are always free to choose whatever they want to see.
      Quoting again Mary O'Hara, on her words, <Q> . Many experts agree that in many cases families sit and watch television at dinner instead of talking with each other. The worst situation in Mary O'Hara accusations to the TV role in society is when parents use television as a pacifier for their children. Regarding her words, <Q>. Again, most pedagogy experts claim that TV transmit to children corrupting values and that it has to blame for the fact that children barely learn to read and they don't see the point of getting the skill.
      In my opinion, parents that rely on TV to care the children are performing a wrong position. It seems to me that many adult contents are showed on TV hence in children's protected timetable/schedule. For that reason, I think parents should pay more attention in what they children could see. I believe that TV can represent a useful tool by which children can learn a lot of information or lessons about the world or society in documental, series, cartoons, etc. Moreover, I guess that television can provide enormous possibilities for education, like school programs via closed-circuit television. Furthermore, I disagree with people that affirm TV breaks other people relationship. In my view, TV may be good company to those who do not work, like housewives, lonely old people, etc, or also single people. I think it only can be a problem in special cases of abusive consumption.
      In conclusion, there are different views about what role TV represents in society. On the one hand, it is possible to say that TV conforms a useful and interesting way of communication and entertainment. On the other hand, an abusive consumption of TV can be an important factor of physical diseases, bad relationship with other people or frustration caused by bad programs or deceptive publicity. In my opinion, the best way to use TV is to watch it with moderation, distributing our time to practice other important and interesting activities such as read books or playing sports. Also, I think in any case TV must be any kind babysitter for children and parents should, in my view, pay more attention in what they children can see.
	

