
	It seems that there are some crises in the multimedia industry sector (it is to said books, movies, music, software, videogames, etc) caused by a list of factors. The most important problem, the one this essay is about, is the massive and illegal download of copyrighted material. Trough the internet, people can find rips, books' scans, copies of video and music files, etc, and the can download them for free (obviously, by non orthodox methods). That situation provokes big loses of sums of money for entertainment industries, because most people prefer to have movies, music, etc, for free (sometimes in bad conditions such as poor definition or quality) in order to pay for enjoy works in the best characteristics, done as their creators want them. In this essay, I'm going to develop my own ideas about the issue of multimedia piracy and I'll show my different positions (towards or against) supporting them with researched information. I will focus on the most affected sections: movies, music and books.

	Firstly, I've noticed that nowadays the majority of hobbies are expensive, but I comprehend that their creation processes are expensive as well. The management of a book, movie or compact disc has a lot of stages and it needs to be developed by companies by means of big sums of money. That money is inverted in materials, processes of creation, distribution ad administration. These quantities of money notably depend on the collection of the products selling. But, I think that if hobbies are expensive, life is more expensive as well: not many years ago, for example, you could go to cinema paying a considerable cheaper ticket than today. Nevertheless, I believe that irremediably most prizes became more expensive, because costs increase as well.

	In the case of movies, according to what I've read <R> the assistance of public at cinemas and collections decreased every year. The prize of ticket is expensive (especially in big cities, such as Madrid) and because of that, people tend to not go to cinema (at least, this is the most common reason I've read). Many small neighboured cinemas have been closed because the tendency is to build big "multicinema rooms" (my own translation of "salas de multicine"). So, another problem is the isolation and globalization of cinemas as a consequence of crises. On one hand, I understand that many people don't want to pay for a expensive ticket to see a movie neither bear large queues when they go to cinema, so the solution they find is to download films by internet (using sharing programs such as "e-mule", "bittorrent" or direct download systems if they have fine and fast ADSL connections).

	Considering the higher prizes of tickets, in my view, people don't risk trying to see an unknown movie (there comes another factor that increases a lost the cost of the distribution of a product: publicity in spots, trailers or posters, etc) because they don't want to pay for a movie that will probably (or probably not) be disappointed with it. Seeing some webs of cinema box  <R>, I would conclude that majority of people usually see cinema hits, such as famous sagas such as Harry Potter, Lord of the rings, Star Wars, etc, or hits such as Scary Movie, Shreck... in order to intimate films or foreign authors movies. I don't want to apologize for any kind of film, but I think you could notice the difference of quality in the plot, characterization or deep reflections and vindications, but people frequently (and this isn't new) prefer the safety, light films.

	I strongly believe that people should support a movie if they really like it (they would have became interested in a certain title by reading a criticism or the plot in magazines or newspapers or they would have seen a trailer in TV or in the internet) by going to the cinema or by buying the DVD. Otherwise, if people don't support a movie, the companies that brought it to cinemas only would bring hits and commercial films (I know that independent films use to have a minority public) and they won't try any further with strange, new, excitement or risky films, so it means that there would be a lack of diversity. Although I have to recognize that playing a movie in your PC/DVD- player while you're seating in your sofa or lying in bed is more comfortable than moving outside home to bear traffic jams, bug sums of people along street or in subways or queues in cinema's entrance. But, based on my own experiences, the illegal copy of a copyrighted work that you can find in the internet or in "top manta" market has a poor definition of image and lower quality of sound than the official and legalized one you can find or DVD-stores. This is because the illegalized movies are usually recorded or captured by a domestic digital camera (this kind of file is also known as screeners), an act that is illegal, and it can' be compared with a digital copy of the original (casually, what you can buy or pay for see it! (That's irony)).

	Meanwhile, I'm in favour of the idea that consists in only download foreign movies that have few or any possibilities of being licensed for its distribution in cinema or DVD-stores. I share this idea with fansub groups (that are groups of fans that dedicate their time to translate and create subtitles to let people see movies in foreign languages that don't understand) because one of their most important policy is to support any movie when it's licensed by means of stopping its distribution in download systems and, if the movie has interested you (and you have enough money), you would buy the DVD when it comes to sale. Then, you may help other movies in similar situation to become licensed and more people will enjoy them.

	Secondly, another case is the case of music factory. I've experienced that the prize of compact disc has increased again. I'm going to defend the piracy position, because in my view, the prize of music is abusive. Comparing a DVD with a CD, a DVD contains more components (film, extras, many subtitle and audio options, etc) and has a well-fit prize than a CD that usually contains a little list of songs without any incentive. The authors of a CD (singer, musicians, composers, etc) are the people that directly suffer the effects of piracy, but between them and piracy there are lucrative entities that take advantage of the situation, such as SGAE ("Sociedad general de autores españoles"). Entities like that are created, in principle, to support and defend musicians, but they do nothing about. The only thing they have done to "fight against piracy" has been the creation and put in practice of a canon, by which a little percentage of money of the selling of CDs owns them. Some people may think that is a practical solution, because fight piracy seems difficult. But, I personally believe this solution only help to full SGAE's wallet with extra money.

      However, in the internet you can find comprised music files in good quality formats respecting the original sound file. I consider that through the distribution of music files in the internet, they can be discovered by a lot of people along the world. You can know new artists, groups or kinds of music for free. On the other hand, it is possible to argue that by downloading free music you can't support the artist, as in the movies case. My opinion about is that the whole content of music is respected in the music files and they can be saved in mp3 players or walkmans, that are more practical and useful to carry than CDs. To see a DVD, you need at least a TV, a DVD and a DVD-player, but to listen to the music, you only need an mp3 player or walkman. A movie (except if it is in bad quality) occupies a lot of megabytes (a kind of software unit) or in other words, a whole DVD, meanwhile a lot of songs in good quality but in mp3 format or similar you can have approximately 200 songs in a CD, I cannot imagine how many in a DVD! (That can save about 5 CDs).

	I believe it's unfair that you have to pay for only a few songs and I also think it's unfair to the artist, but some solutions have been put in practice: some artists have put in their web pages a couple of songs or a system of payment (usually in low prizes) to listen some extracts or samples from their music. Then, if you like their music, you can support them by buying the CD (the option I recommend only if you're sure and love that music, because CDs occupy a lot of place). Furthermore, I've read <R> that while the selling of CDs has decreased, the assistance to concerts and the number of concerts have increased a lot. I think and share my opinion with that newspaper that this is possible because people can access to music easily thanks to the piracy.

	Thirdly, I'm going to cover the case of books. It's a mixture of the two previous cases: there are a lot of uploaded books in web pages authorised by the author or publishers, but you can also find unauthorised or illegal copies or scans filled in the internet. I recommend not trying to use frequently the digital reading, because according to several scientific studies  <R> it damages the vision notably. But, I think that is good for people who have not got enough space in their libraries or rooms to keep the books and fewer trees (from which paper is made) will be cut-off. However, if you read a book in your computer, I think you're spending a lot of energy. So, if you're worried about the problem of massive cut-off of trees or you want to support the edition of certain books and you having not the problem of space, I suggest you to buy low-prized editions that are usually made of recycled paper.

	Finally, although I've defended some cases of piracy, I have to remember that there are laws that protect original products. In most licensed products there are several notices and advertisements that inform about anti-copy laws. Also, many have internal anti-copy systems who difficult the piracy. In a general overview, I think that piracy is only an extreme solution. So, you should take my advice and be careful with the anti-piracy laws, because according to the current laws, there were very serious punishments such as imprisonment or larger guarantees. Moreover, I think that one possible solution to avoid piracy and doing it in an economic way is the looking for cheaper prizes and sales. This is the best purpose I have practised: there are many web pages such as www.ebay.com where you can find lower-prized items in the second hand market. Also, you can look for special prizes in stores (I recommend the best and safety digital shop, www.amazon.com , but also your nearer bookshop/CD/DVD store).

	To summarize and conclude, I'm against multimedia piracy, except in a couple of examples, because it causes loses in the industry. This situation provokes that the prize of the licensed items became more expensive, that companies became unsure to bring and license more products, a lack of variety and so on. But, I support the piracy only in certain cases, such as in the music industry, because in my view the prizes are abusive, the musicians obtains more money from the concerts than from their salary (provided by discographies) and the factor that causes the current boom of concerts is the piracy, that supposes a medium with which people can access easily to music.
