      
      The fact of the existence of a market of prostitution is mostly recognized by the governments of many countries. This recognition and acceptance has led to countries like Netherlands or Germany-and in the case of the US in some counties in the state of Nevada- to make an effort to regulate this activity. This regulation processes are always followed by a sometimes controversial debate on how this process should be dealt. On the one hand, it seems to a sector of the society that there should not be any tolerance on this activity and that such thing as prostitution cannot be accepted and decriminalized -some for their religious believes, others that strongly believe legalization justifies violence in some way. On the other hand, some organizations of prostitutes consider that the legalization of this activity would eventually help to avoid trafficking and other crimes related to prostitution and to improve the conditions where it is done <Q> . The issue of the possibility of choosing prostitution as a means for living also brings out the debate of sexist prejudices. Some organisations consider prostitution as a great problem of male oppression towards women. It is clear that on this matter controversial debates always emerge as its detractors and those in favour give all kinds of statistics on the subject. Two concepts -migration and prostitution get together based on statistics. This information raises the question on why should state update prostitution and how should this be done. In this essay, I will try to show that in my opinion the legalization and modernisation of prostitution will have positive repercussions, as far as this may possibly be done, by approaching some of the aspects and problems of this activity such as trafficking and crime.
      
      I believe one of the most important reasons on why prostitution should be regularized is that by this action the traffic of women would stop. Although in Germany prostitution has been legal since 2002 <R>  there are still women that prostitute themselves in the streets, exposed to any risk of being attacked by anyone. Speaking personally, I feel there is a permissive treatment as in Spain that has not legalized prostitution but the police does not arrest women on the streets. I strongly relieve that regulation on prostitution is a crucial point to abolish traffic. According to The United Nations <Q> <R>.  It seems to me that no person should be under any circumstances forced to prostitution. Nevertheless, it is true that the relation between migration and poverty leads into desperate conditions where women are forced to become prostitutes.  I tend to believe that by legalizing prostitution traffic mafias would affront severe penalties in legislation that eventually will lead to their eradication. As hapens in Netherlands legislation 
<Q> <R> .
      Another issue associated with prostitution is that prostitution is associated with crime just by because we find both on the streets. My personal view on this is that legalization would help eradicating this relation and other connotations as illegality, diseases or drugs. I think the regulation of remunerated sexual activities eventually could turn into a change in the way we as a society perceive prostitution and the disappearance of the fact of crime related to it. A majority of society that does not accept prostitution argue that it is unacceptable and annoying to find prostitution in the streets of their neighbourhood. A recent case in Madrid lead the government to make a "harassment" campaign on clients of prostitutes in Calle montera <R> . Personally speaking I feel this is a wrong attempt to eradicate prostitution. In my opinion, there should not only be a respect on the neighbours of streets where prostitution concentrates but also for the people who use this service. To reconcile both points of view I think a good option to legalize prostitution, as establishments for this activity can offer both security and mainly to the workers. The legalization of brothels and regulation on the way someone can obtain a license in Netherlands is a good example. 
      <Q> <R> .
      It appears to me that in this way the conditions for workplaces in prostitution are assured. Other positive aspects on legalizing laws on behaviour of clients are also granted. Some opinions argue that brothels do not guarantee that clients' behaviour with workers such as drug consuming and disrespect for women -including physical aggression- cannot be controlled. For my part, I believe that as a regulated activity, workplaces for prostitution may restrict the entrance to this places as it happens in any other establishment that offers a service. Besides, as a regulated activity the order forces can help to do this as the aim is to end unacceptable and unfair situations in the prostitution area <R> .
      Another important thing that in my opinion would be better controlled if prostitution was legal is the age of the women or men that do so. The responsibility of the authorities to observe the compliance of this point is very important. I strongly believe that the fact that in some countries where it is relatively easy to access girls or boys for prostitution would be dissuaded if prostitution was legal in a sense that it will establish the illegality of exploitation. I strongly believe that the real issue in legalizong prostitution is that sexual activities should be recognized as legal, although it is not a matter to eradicate instantly but to control as much as possible in a gradual process <R> .
      
      To conclude I personally believe that prostitution should be regularized in most countries as it would help to prevent mafias form trafficking with human beings. Apart from the advances in social matters and in the way society views prostitution it seems to me that with the legalization of prostitution the conditions of workers or sex would be granted and thus cases of exploitation and coercion would gradually decrease. However, this cannot be done alone. In my opinion there should be a international institution observing this regulations as in the case of immigration. In addition, I believe that there should be any kind of relation between governments of countries that are involved with trafficking activities that might favour the detection of mafias and their eventual disembarking. 
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      BIBLIOGRAPHY
Decriminalize Prostitution Now Coalition. 2006. What countries have legal prostitution? http://www.sexwork.com/coalition/whatcountrieslegal.html. Date accessed 29/10/2006.

Janice G. Raymond, Coalition Against Trafficking in Women International (CATW). 2006. 10 Reasons for Not Legalizing Prostitution. http://www.rapereliefshelter.bc.ca/issues/prostitution_legalizing.html. Date accessed 23/10/2006. 

Mark Liberador. 2006. Legalized Prostitution.
Regulating the Oldest Profession. http://www.liberator.net/articles/prostitution.html. Date accessed 29/10/2006.

Publicación del Ministerio holandés de Asuntos Exteriores. 2006. Q & A PROSTITUCIÓN 2004.Preguntas y respuestas acerca de la política holandesa sobre la prostitución. http://www.colectivohetaira.org/leyholanda.pdf. Date accessed 23/10/2006.

S. Alcalde. El Pais. 2006. Gallardón cierra al tráfico la calle de la Montera para paliar la degradación de la zona. http://www.elpais.es/articulo/madrid/Gallardon/cierra/trafico/calle/Montera/paliar/degradacion/zona/elpepiautmad/20060207elpmad_14/Tes/. Date accessed 30/10/2006.

Trabajadoras(o)s Sexuales en Europa Unida(o)s. 2006. http://www.sindominio.net/karakola/precarias/encuentro_sexwork.htm. Date accessed 23/10/2006.

World Revolution. 2006. Human Trafficking. Sex Trafficking: Facts and Figures.http://www.worldrevolution.org/Projects/Webguide/GuideArticle.asp?ID=1430. Date accessed 23/10/2006
















      ¹Legislation imposes a six-year penalty at the most and a fine to people who:
_ forces someone to prostitution
_ induces to prostitution to a minor
_ recruits, kidnaps or takes away another with the purpose of prostitution in another country (according to Declaration of Geneva of 1993 for the abolition of adult women's traffic)
_ takes advantage of forced prostitution of anyone or from underage prostitution
_ forces anyone to take benefit with the result of prostitution. (My translation)
      
      ² The VNG has developed with this purpose, a national decree model on sex locals, sex commerce, street prostitution, etc. A company of this kind cannot disturb the environment or the setting of a neighbourhood and its establishments must be according to the urban laws and to the decrees on the environment. The regulation concerning the setting of a local dedicated to prostitution have rules on the installation (minimum size of the premise), safety ( on fires) and hygiene (the presence in the premises of a bathroom with hot and cold water and condoms). The regulation on the management of the premises [...] pretends to avoid unacceptable bother to the neighbourhood. (My translation)
      





