
During the last years, piracy has gradually become a widespread phenomenon in our society. In 2004, for 
example, according to a study accomplished by the BSA (Business Software Alliance), 35% of the 
software installed on personal computers worldwide was unauthorized and losses due to piracy were 
estimated around 33 billion $. Moreover, there are countries where the situation is extremely critical; let's 
take, for example, the case of Paraguay, where 99% of the music people are listening to is illegal, or 
Vietnam, which has a rate of software piracy of 92%. <R>. And all these 
things happen even if governments are constantly trying to put forward new laws and amendments that 
should actually cope with violations of copyright. In this essay, I intend to show that current anti-piracy 
laws do not deal effectively with the complexity of the phenomenon and that different measures (not 
specifically legal ones) should be taken, in order to successfully solve the problem.
For the beginning, I would argue that a serious problem consists in the lack of an international or regional 
law, that may act uniformly in several countries and deal with the issue in a much more centralized 
manner. This lack of coordination and cooperation between countries - every country has its own 
stipulations regarding piracy and there can be observed enormous differences with respect to sanctions in 
one country or another, only results into chaos and disorder, being actually very far from contributing to 
what may be called an operative legal framework. It is obvious that law offenders aren't in the least 
deterred from this actions by this disordered multitude of laws. I think that an international organization 
could come up with a draft bill that should be talked over and then passed in each and every of its 
member countries. Thus, several countries could coordinate their anti-piracy policies and these joint 
efforts will result in an increased efficiency. 
Furthermore, there are a great deal of countries where laws stipulate sanctions that seem quite 
insignificant in comparison to the proportions of the phenomenon. For instance, titles 17 & 18 of the US 
Code specify that the infringement of copyright for the purpose <Q> is punished with up to five years of imprisonment and/or a fine of 250,000 $. Moreover, 
repeated offenders can be imprisoned for up to ten years. <R> Of course, at first sight, these figures may seem important, but what is 250,000 $ compared to the 
6.6 billion $, namely the amount that piracy cost the US last year ? <R>     
I would go further and analyse the situation in a developing non-EU country, such as Romania, where 
pirates, when discovered, do not get into jail. They only have to pay a fine of up to 25,000 lei (that is 
approximately 7,000 Euros) and the illegal copies that are found in their possession get confiscated. 
<R> And let us also consider the fact that the vast majority of 
these offenders cannot be even tracked down. How can then all this money be actually recovered ? Does a 
fine of 7,000 Euros actually scare a pirate to such an extent so that he should definitely give up selling 
illegal copies of software and music ? Well, I don't think so. They can keep on believing they won't be 
discovered or, eventually, even pay the fine and then get back to business. It is obvious that, if the pirate 
makes a lot of money out of the sale of illegal copies, he won't care too much about the fine and not in the 
least will he be interested in the moral aspect of his behaviour. This is why I believe that governments, 
record companies and other involved organizations should consider another measures, not just simply use 
fines and laws to try to discourage criminals. Maybe they should instead focus on developing production 
and marketing strategies that may lead to a decrease in the price of original items and, consequently to 
greater official sales figures. Even if this technique cannot do away with piracy once and for all, losses 
would be far lower.
Another problematic issue that is expanding to unmanageable proportions and that doesn't seem to be 
affected by legal measures has to do with Internet uploads and downloads. The peculiar complexity of the 
situation is mainly due to the difficulty of distinguishing between what is legal and what is illegal use of 
the Internet. No one can control the way an individual uses his personal computer and how much time he 
spends connected to Kazaa, eMule, Limewire, BitTorrent, Ares or any other out of the multitude of peer-
to-peer networks. Everybody knows, nowadays, that a movie, software or the songs on a CD can be found 
on the Internet even before their official launch. You only need a high-speed connection and then you can 
download all the stuff you want, without having to buy it in the shops any more. Of course, most of the 
times, the uploaders of such material try to protect themselves by attaching a disclaimer to the respective 
file (that is a note that goes like this: <Q>) But how many of 
the downloaders do actually delete the archive after reading this ? And, what is more difficult, how can 
any authority prevent or at least control this behaviour ? It can be stated that several of the free-of-charge 
programmes of this type have either been closed or turned into pay-software, which was, a couple of 
years ago, the case of Napster, America's most widely used peer-to-peer programme. Besides, the Federal 
Court of Australia has recently issued a landmark ruling establishing that the peer-to-peer network Kazaa 
is illegal and finding its <Q> <R>. Yet, one swallow makes no summer and free peer-to-peer programmes are 
likely to go on developing as long as the governments do not take effective measures at a higher level. 
The continuous development of websites where anyone can find free cracks, serial numbers or key 
generators for a great amount of software is another matter that demands quick action. It can be observed 
that, although companies try to protect their products by assigning each legal copy a unique key code, the 
system can be easily deceived. I feel that, in this respect too, legal action fails to attain its object and not 
even raids yield satisfactory results. 
As I have shown in the paragraphs above, piracy, in its multiple aspects, is a really complex issue, that 
laws haven't been able to cope with so far. I would suggest a few solutions that may at least lead to a 
decrease in global piracy rates. I believe that governments should unite their efforts, either on their own 
initiative or under the guidance of an international organization and pass a worldwide bill that should 
operate equally in all these countries. A joint action will prove the pirates that the matter is being taken 
seriously and that this crime is now being considered at a definitely higher level. 
Then, I think record and software companies should develop production and distribution techniques that 
should facilitate the launch of cheaper original items. First, this would be convenient because lower prices 
would stimulate demand and sales will increase, which is obviously the purpose of every company. 
Second, this reduction in price will directly affect illegal dealers, acting as a deterrent. Of course, it might 
be argued that the high price of original products is not the only factor that prevents people from buying 
them, and, indirectly, resulting in an expansion of piracy. It would be naïve to think that piracy is nothing 
more than a poor man's disease, which might be cured exclusively through economic elixirs. According 
to the Report on Global Software Piracy 2000 published by the SIIA (Software and Information Industry 
Association), in 1999, in high-income countries like Hong Kong and Singapore, for example, piracy 
reached rates of 56 %, respectively 51 %. <R> What 
could then be done in such cases ? A reduction in price would surely not be the most effective method.       
I believe that the principal reason for the development of piracy in such rich countries lies in the 
extraordinary progress of technology. People have the money to buy original products, but it is far more 
comfortable to just sit down in your armchair and download everything from the web. Consequently, 
measures should be adapted. I think a good think to do would be setting up a mensual quota on the usage 
of peer-to-peer programmes. It would have to be an affordable amount, so that everyone who has access 
to the Internet should be able to pay it, and, naturally, it would have to be applied to all the programmes 
of the kind, in order to avoid possible abuse. In my opinion, this device would be fair both for users - 
who may legally obtain the items they want without having to buy them in the shop any more, and for the 
companies, as their global losses will diminish subsequently.
All in all, I think piracy is an issue that poses serious problems to governments, nowadays, this being 
reflected in their incapacity of dealing with it effectively. On the one hand, this happens because the legal 
framework concerning it is not very well defined: there hasn't yet been put forward an international or 
regional law which may enable governments to join their efforts in fighting piracy and, moreover, 
existing sanctions do not seem to match the alarming extent of the phenomenon. On the other hand, 
illegal music, video and software downloads represent another intricate matter, as it is very difficult to 
follow them thoroughly. Accordingly, I think that involved entities should ponder over new strategies of 
getting through piracy and, to this respect, I have suggested a reduction in the price of original items - 
which, in my opinion, is especially crucial in countries with a low GDP per capita, along with the 
establishment of an affordable quota on peer-to-peer programmes. Certainly, these proposals do not 
pretend to set themselves up for an all-heal remedy of this complicated matter, but I think they will help 
to win a victory over black economy and maybe, in the long run, illegal items will find their way down to 
the rubbish bin. 







