        
        In the latest years, debates about oral contraceptives and their implications have become more and 
more heated. In the past, little or almost nothing was known about these pills, as contraception was a 
somewhat taboo subject and people were reluctant to openly talk about it. But, nowadays, things are not the 
same any more: the increase in the number of population, as well as constant economic, technological and 
intellectual development have contributed to radical lifestyle changes and this current state of facts has 
brought the matter of birth control to the forefront. To this respect, oral contraceptives are perhaps the most 
controversial form of preventing pregnancy. Some people are fully in favour of these pills, some disapprove 
of them, but would willingly resort to other forms of birth control, others condemn contraception as a 
general concept and there are also persons who support the use of pills, but only under certain 
circumstances. In this essay, I intend to present and discuss this range of possible perspectives on oral 
contraceptives, on the conditions under which they should be taken, as well as on their short and long term 
effects.
        Figures and statistics speak in favour of oral contraceptives. Family planning leaflets, contraceptive 
manufacturers, expert websites such as http://www.contraception.net assert that, if taken correctly, the pill is <Q> <R>. Besides, every day more women 
appeal to oral contraceptives. A recent Population Information Program has shown that, at present, that is 
four decades after the introduction of the pill, more than 100 million women all around the world rely on it. 
Oral contraceptives are the <Q> <R>. All this 
information is quite reassuring, but it shouldn't be the only factor to motivate a woman in choosing this 
contraceptive method. What is good for a great deal of people is not necessarily good for everybody, and a 
woman has to weigh up more aspects about oral contraceptives before deciding to use them.
        A complex argument about the contraceptive pill has to do with its side effects, with how it can 
affect one's organism. On the one side, there are the upholders of other forms of contraception, who regard 
the pill as a real nuisance. Firstly, because it may provoke headaches, weight gain, nausea, spotting 
(bleeding between periods), breast tenderness, emotional changes, water retention and even diarrhea 
<R>. Secondly, the pill, due to the high quantities of hormone supplements it contains, ends 
up by negating the very reason for which it is taken: having safe sex. How does this happen? Apparently, 
many women have experienced <Q> while using the pill <R>. Another problem is that, when a woman is on the pill, she must be very careful not to take any 
medicine that may interact with the contraceptive. Otherwise, serious health complications may appear and 
she may even be no longer protected against pregnancy <R>. This 
group of people also disapprove of the introduction of such strong pills as the Seasonale. This contraceptive, 
manufactured by Barr Laboratories in New York, has to be taken during 84 consecutive days, followed by a 
7-days pause, which means that a woman will only have 4 periods each year <R>. Even 
if this might sound tempting up to a certain point, the change is too radical and severe unexpected effects 
may occur.   
        The detractors of the contraceptive pill also sustain that it could bring about severe health problems, 
materialized in a higher risk of developing certain diseases. To this respect, Dr Tricia Macnair, from BBC 
Health, says that oral contraceptives imply a <Q> and it is 
not until ten years after stopping taking the pill that the risk falls back <Q>. She also states that the pill makes cells in a woman's body more vulnerable to cancer 
triggers and that it provokes an increase in thrombo-embolism (the formation of potentially dangerous blood 
clots, which can cause a stroke) <R>. Specialists at the World Health 
Organization talk about a 2 up to 4 times higher risk of cardiovascular disease for women who take the pill, 
as well as of an increased risk of developing cervical cancer (about 50-100% higher) (Family Health 
International, 2005). Furthermore, the pill doesn't protect against STDs (sexually transmitted diseases) such 
as HIV/AIDS <R>.
        On the other side, we have the specialists who consider that oral contraceptives improve certain 
things about a woman's organism. As a matter of fact, these pills are also prescribed for other medical 
purposes, not only for birth control (Center for Young Women's Health, 2005). Research has shown that 
women who are on the pill have lighter and shorter periods, decreased menstrual cramping and have also got 
rid of the PMS (Pre-Menstrual Syndrome). Moreover, contraceptive pills can help enlarge one's breasts and 
reduce acne (Student Health Center, University of Oregon, 2005). Another of the advantages of this method 
lies in its complete reversibility: a woman may give up the pill whenever she wants and she'll have no 
problem in getting pregnant (Societé des Obstétriciens et Gynécologues du Canada, 2005). Besides, a 
woman may feel more secure if she takes the pill, as the protection is entirely in her hands and she doesn't 
have to worry about her partner buying condoms. It is also more comfortable just to take a pill every day 
and then have sex as many times as you want, with no necessity of additional protection at every other 
intercourse. 
        But these minor effects are not the whole of it. It can be argued that women who use this 
contraceptive method are more protected against ovarian and endometrial cancer -  World Health 
Organization studies talk about a 50% lower risk. Pills are also said to offer protection against incidence of 
ovarian cysts, ectopic pregnancy, pelvic inflammatory diseases or anemia <R>.  Professor John Hopper from the University of Melbourne asserts that oral contraceptives can even 
protect against breast cancer: the lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who have inherited a "high-risk" 
mutation in the breast cancer gene is reduced from 40-80 per cent to 10-20 per cent if the women use the pill 
<R>. Besides, women on oral contraceptives are more likely to visit their 
doctors for routine exams. Therefore, diseases are more likely to be identified and diagnosed in women who 
take birth control pills <R>. Furthermore, even if a certain connection between pills and other 
diseases were admitted, in Asian or African countries oral contraceptives are likely to have very little 
adverse impact on women's mortality. In these regions, <Q> <R>.
        Both these perspectives - the unfavourable and the favourable one - are thoroughly supported, and 
rely on expert opinions and scientifically collected data. However, a pill doesn't necessarily act this way 
upon everyone. The results can vary a lot, according to each organism's predisposition towards certain 
behaviour. To this respect, we can refer to women who, even taking the pill for a long time, experienced the 
same menstrual cramping <R>. Conversely, there are women whose 
emotional state has been very much improved by contraceptives, as they didn't have to preoccupy for an 
unwanted pregnancy any more. Besides, as it can be observed in the paragraphs above, a lot of the studies 
seem to yield quite contradictory results and it's very difficult to choose which one to trust. With respect to 
the risk of developing breast cancer, studies don't seem to agree in the least - the figures presented above 
show either a benefic or a harmful influence of the pill. But, at the same time, there are also studies - for 
instance, a research by Women's CARE (Contraceptive and Reproductive Experiences) - that find no 
connection between taking oral contraceptives for a long time and breast cancer risk <R>. It seems, therefore, that both arguments have their weaknesses, and, as science hasn't yet had its final 
word about the matter, nothing can be taken for granted.
        Religious beliefs have given rise to a particularly radical viewpoint on contraception. Despite the 
very pronounced differences between one cult and another, they all seem to agree when it comes to birth 
control. <Q> and, moreover, abstinence is <Q>. The Bible promotes prolific childbirth - <Q> and there is one 
explicit reference to birth control; Genesis 38:9-10, states that during intercourse Onan "<Q>" (coitus interruptus). This was <Q> and was punished by Onan's death 
<R>. To this respect, two cases are worth mentioning: that of Dr Joseph Hassan, from New 
Zealand, who has given up prescribing any active form of birth control, arguing that <Q> <R>. and that of Dr 
Stephen Dawson, from Barrie, Ontario, who refused to prescribe contraceptives to unmarried women and 
was charged with <Q> <R>. This perspective is fully understandable from 
a moral point of view, but it seems to miss an important issue. Women who resort to contraception do it 
because they want to avoid an unwanted pregnancy. If they didn't have this opportunity, of preventing, they 
would perhaps give birth to a child they wouldn't be able to maintain or, what is worse, they would abort the 
baby. 
        It can be argued, and this is the vision of most doctors, that oral contraceptives are a good family 
planning method, but their administration should be carefully supervised. When prescribing the pill, doctors 
should pay very much attention to the medical record of the patient. Firstly, women who have <Q> <R>. should be subject to further 
examinations before beginning to take the pill, as, due to these complications, it may have an adverse effect. 
Secondly, oral contraceptives are available in a wide range of formulas, each of these containing different 
quantities of the two female sex hormones (progestin and estrogen) and each organism reacts in a distinct 
way to certain combinations of these substances <R>. This reasoning seems to be 
very logical, and, at the same time, gives great importance to a proper treatment of the human body. 
However, in many cases, these recommendations are not effectively carried out and serious problems may 
turn up. On the one hand, there have been discovered cases when doctors prescribed contraceptive pills in a 
quite irresponsible manner. For example, in Scotland, doctors <Q> <R>. On the other hand, an alarming number of young 
girls don't go to the doctor and take the pill off the top of their head or following some friend's advice. Of 
course, they won't know which type is appropriate for their organism and they may end up taking a pill that 
can seriously affect their health <R>.
        Another argument regarding oral contraceptives is that, whether good or bad, using them is a big 
decision to take, not only because of the physical implications, but also with a view to the psychological 
aspect. A woman has to know for sure if it is the right moment to begin taking the pill, if the relationship is 
worth it, if the commitment is mutual. If one doesn't have a stable relationship, but passes from a one-night 
stand to another, other forms of birth control would be more appropriate. Firstly, because people who don't 
have a stable sex partner are at a higher risk of developing some sexually transmitted disease, and the pill 
offers no protection against that. Then, because a pill has to be taken regularly and consciously. You can't 
stop taking the pill when your boyfriend leaves you and then resume it when he comes back. The point is 
reasonable, but one can't always tell whether a relationship is serious or not - young girls, for example, are 
likely to exaggerate their feelings and can't judge their affair objectively.  
        On balance, there can be found clearly different perspectives regarding the use of oral 
contraceptives: there are those who sustain them as a highly safe birth control method and as a way of 
improving certain other things about your body; there are people who condemn them, either by claiming 
that the disadvantages of the pill outweigh the possible advantages or by rejecting birth control in general; 
and there are those who go for a mid-point, recognizing the benefic effects of the pill but recommending its 
administration only under certain circumstances. Increased availability of information about the subject and 
a better education to this respect would be a possible way to conciliate these distinct viewpoints. Women 
should be very well aware of the effects (either good or bad) that pills may have upon their body; they 
should get rid of their fear and shame and go to the doctor so that they may receive expert advice and 
choose the birth control method that best suits their organism. Oral contraceptives can be very good friends 
if taken adequately, but also dangerous acquaintances if the decision is not well-informed. 


2

