


         When our fathers were children, violence at school was not a social problem as 
nowadays, where we can find that in most schools reigns something  that we could 
describe as the ¨ knife culture ¨. As examples we all remember the tragedy that took 
place in 1999 in a high school in Columbine ( Colorado ) where two teenage students 
carried  out a shooting rampage, killing twelve fellow students and a teacher , as well as 
wounding twenty four others, before committing suicide. But it is not necessary going 
to America to find that violent actions, since here in Spain is still remember the case of 
Jokin , a 14 year old boy from the Basque country who suffered bullying , what made   
him to commit suicide due to the bad situation he was living at school. So in this essay I 
will try to explain how I feel towards the problem of violence at school, focusing on 
which appears to be from my point of view the main causes for these outbreaks of 
violence as well as the consequences for both the aggressed and the bully and also I will 
try  to give some possible solutions to the problem. 
          According to Jackson Toby ( professor of society and director Institute for 
Criminological research, Rutgers university ).  Two kinds of violence should be distinguished. One is violence perpetrated by predatory adolescent male trespassers who enter school buildings to steal or rob; assaults may occur to disable victims. Intruder violence is most common in the largest cities. The other type of violence is committed by enrolled students against members of the school community: teachers, fellow students, staff members. Their violent acts include robbery, specially  extortion of money and valuables from fellow students, but their main motivation appears to be anger, expressed in assaults against both students and staff members <R> . 
                  In my opinion one of the different causes for all of these violent behaviours is the music young people listens to, specially rock music or hip hop. I think that, that kind of music is dangerous because of the lyrics of these songs, since many of these songs encourage racist or anti social behaviour. On the other hand some people believe that hip hop or rock's lyrics are not so bad because these lyrics only tell the own experience of the singer and also people that  listens to this kind of music it is supposed to know the difference between what is wrong and what is right. However I believe that kind of music is dangerous not only because of the lyrics they have, but also because people in some concerts of rock or hip hop take drugs what can derive into violent behaviours. 
         Another different cause that makes children to have violent behaviour are movies 
or television. Everyday we see movies with a high evident content where we see that a 
man kills a lot of people and the reactions it has is laughing as if killing someone were 
funny. It is clear that children know that actors in films really do not die since 
everything is fiction, but I think we can not allowed children to see those films that can 
have bad effects on them.     
         Apart from these causes, I strongly believe that there is one more cause which I 
think is the stronger or the most important to justify this increased of violence in 
schools, which are videogames. Actually we can see there are a lot of games which 
support violence where for example in order to win more money or more points or 
whatever you have to kill innocent people or even worse, you have to run down 
someone with your car. It is clear that not all videogames are violent since we have a lot 
of  games that promote sports, cars or motorbikes races or even best the use of the brain 
to solve riddles or puzzles. But unfortunately people prefer violent games because they 
consider it as being inoffensive and not really  what they are, dangerous games, that can 
take us to make dangerous actions.


Related to the consequences of violence at school or bullying <Q> <R> .
Personally speaking I think that bullying has also consequences for the aggressor 
as well as for the aggressed child. In their future if aggressors continue bullying they 
will probably become criminals. 

Concerning the solutions to the problem of violence at school, I consider that there 
could be many possible solutions that can be viable, to stop the problem of bullying. 
From my perspective one of these solutions although not the best would be that the boy 
who is aggressed goes to another school in order to be far from his punisher. That appears to be a so good measure but I think that in most of the schools there are bullies, 
so that the measure of going to another school only would postpone a new attack to the 
aggressed child by other bullies. Also  bullies are able to look for hi in the street so that 
in that way they could disturb him. Because of all that, the measure to change school I 
think is not the most effective, to avoid the child being attacked.

 I think that another possible solution could be that children study moral principles 
and public spirit as an obligatory subject. With that measure they will learn to respect to 
the rest of people and the number of bullies would decrease. The problem of that rule is 
that most of the times there are students who fail in attendance to class  so that they do 
not go to class. I think that measure could be taken with paternal control or some kind of control by the school in order to for bullies going to class and not falling in attendance.

I consider that  another possible solution could be that teachers and staff  members 
of the school could be allowed to wear weapons. These weapons there will be not real 
but very similar to the real ones and they only would shot small and inoffensive pellets. 
Many fathers associations do not approve this rule, arguing that their children will not 
be sure while there will be weapons around them, and also fathers argue that violence is 
not won with more violence. From my point of view the measure would be a good one 
in cases that teachers do not exceed about the use of the gun and only use it to  maintain 
a certain order in class.

         So then , this essay  has considered some aspects of violence at school as for 
example some causes to explain the increased of violence in the last few years such as
films or the increased in the sales of videogames with  a   high content of  violence.
Related to consequences I have argued that bullying not also has bad consequences
for the child who suffers it as low academic grades or depression, if not it also has a 
negative consequence for the bully since if now that is a child, he is violent, he will be
even more violent in the future and will become a criminal in society. 
Finally I have expressed some solutions that can be taken into account to avoid bullying 
as for example moving the aggressed child to a different school or even, that children 
take classes of moral principles in the school. To conclude I would like to say that I 
consider bullying a problem of society where everybody would have to act against it to 
make it disappear, because if society does nothing to stop the problem, the future 
situation could be even worse than nowadays.





1


