


         Nowadays the consumption of marijuana by youngsters is something that is 

increasing day by day, and it appears that nobody acts against this situation where we 

see that there are kids of twelve years who take this drug. The origin of the word 

marijuana is in doubt, some authorities are of the opinion that it is derived from the 

Portuguese word '' mariguano ``, meaning intoxicant.  Others are of the opinion that it 

has its derivation in the Mexican words for Mary and Jane. This plant, although 

originally indigenous to Central Asia, is now found in practically every place of the 

world, growing it either wild or cultivated, legally or illegally.


         When originally discovered the use to which this plant was principally put was the 

conversion of its fiber for commercial  purposes in the production of textiles. Later its 

pharmaceutical properties were employed in the practice of medicine  and surgery. But 

it was in the tenth century when African and Asian people began to use it for its 

intoxicating effects, or also in the nineteenth century where poets of the Romantic 

period consumed it to get inspiration. In this essay I will express as many points of view  

as possible about the topic of the consumption of marihuana between youngsters and 

also I will point out my opinion on the issue.


         As our starting point , we will deal with those opinions of people who are totally 

against the use this drug. One of the groups more opposed to this substance, is that of 

health professionals, such as doctors and nurses. They argue that marijuana is a drug 

and that as other drugs it has bad effects for the person who decides to take it. Some of 

these bad effects or consequences which are scientifically proved are: problems of 

memory and learning, anxiety or hearth's acceleration or even problems to think clearly 

and also you can confuse past, present and future. Some of these effects can last 

between  sixty or ninety minutes, but there are other effects which can last and that are 

worst than the ones previously mentioned as for example, cancer. <Q> <R> or even, apart from cancer, you can suffer from 

problems on your lungs or respiratory tracts. 


         As well as doctors, there are also many people in society who are too against the 

consumption of marijuana. These people argue that apart from the bad effects, 

previously mentioned, marijuana can take the consumer to bad behaviours as 

committing crimes, assaults, ropes or even murders. <Q> <R> 


         I think that both of these opinions are very  reasonable and I totally agree with 

both of them. Firstly because as it was said the consequences of drugs such as 

marihuana are very well proved by scientists so there is no possible reply to it and 

secondly because it is known that when you are under the influence of drugs you do not 

know what you are doing and it can lead you to actions such as rape, assault, etc. Apart  

from that the consumption of marijuana between youngsters can finish with these 

adolescents tasting some other drugs that are worst as for example cocaine, heroine and 

it may lead into a group of youngsters who can become drug addicts. <Q> <R> 


         So far we have only deal with those arguments that express opinions against the 

consumption of marijuana, but now,  it is time to start with those points of view that are 

in favour of its use.  First of all we consider important to start with the more numerous 

group of consumers , that is , youngsters from twelve or thirteen to approximately thirty. 

They argue that smoking marijuana make them more popular, because modern songs 

mention it. Other adolescents think that marijuana is less harmful than tobacco. Finally 

there are a lot of youngsters who state that its consumption helps them to forget about 

problems at home or at school, since marijuana is a substance that can relax and make 

you forget things.


         What I strongly believe is that it looks horrible that not children, if not kids of 

twelve years old take drugs. I think it is horrible because if now that they are twelve 

years they take marijuana with eighteen years they might be drug addicts. Concerning 

the arguments they explain to take marijuana I consider them valueless because for 

example there are other ways to be more popular as for example being the best at sports. 

About the idea  they express, on which of the two tobacco and marijuana is more 

harmful, I believe that the thought that tobacco is worst than marijuana is just an 

opinion of these adolescents, since this is something not tested by scientists.  


          Also apart from young people there are a small group of people, who most of 

them are creatives , who think that smoking marijuana can make them to have better 

ideas for their work or even it can make you relax. What I think is that marijuana, once 

again, in not scientifically proved to make oneself getting  more inspiration or better 

ideas. I consider this opinion just an excuse to consume the substance. 


         At this point, we only have to express those arguments that are in favour of the 

consumption of marijuana but in some especial circumstances as for example those 

cases inn which the person is ill of cancer or AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency 

Syndrome) since it is scientifically proved that this substance can help to alleviate 

nauseas produced  by the chemotherapy treatment in patients with cancer. <Q> <R>  What is clear is that if the doctor tells the patient to 

consume marijuana this substance will be consumed through pills or syrups to avoid the 

bad effects of  smoking it. <Q> <R> 


         I consider this last idea a good one because is it is true that marijuana can reduce 

the suffer of these patients with cancer or AIDS, it is possible that these ill people can 

stand better their illness. And also I think that in these cases the government together 

with doctors would have to establish  some kind of control  over the patient to observe if 

him gets better or not with the treatment.


         Finally this essay has considered as many points of view as possible on the issue 

of the consumption of marijuana between youngsters. The points against its use that we 

have claimed are the ones stated by health professionals where they talk about the well 

known bad effects  of marijuana as, problems of memory and learning, anxiety or even 

worse consequences as cancer. On the other hand arguments supporting its consumption 

are those of youngsters who approve is because it is a good manner to forget about 

problems and to relax, and as a neutral point we have considered the one claiming that 

the substance would have to be consumed only by those people with AIDS or cancer, 

illnesses inn which it is tested that this substance can help the patient to have if possible, 

a better way of life.


