

         Nowadays the topic about the use of condoms is an issue that provokes many 

points of view, for as well as against it, since condoms are not supported by all the 

society  groups since for example, religious groups do not see proper its use because it 

will lead you  to a non-stop sex life. On the other hand people supporting condoms 

claim that they are useful to avoid STDs as AIDS which is, if not the worst one of the 

worst diseases that humanity have to tackle since 1981, year in which the epidemic of 

AIDS started to be spread up to the present  because still the disease has not a vaccine 

for its cure. In this essay I will try to express different opinions concerning the topic of 

the use of condoms.  


<Q> <R> ). Because 

of this fact the use of condoms is supported by a lot of people mainly by most of health 

professionals and scientists  since it is proved that they are useful as instruments 

preventing STDs  (Sexual transmission diseases) as for example AIDS, syphilis, 

hepatitis B, gonorrhea or genital herpes. <Q> <R>  Also apart from these STDs, latex condoms are impermeable to 

bacteriums , viruses and sperm.


         Another argument for the supporting of condoms is that they are highly used by 

unmarried young couples who what they only look for is sex, but in a safe way without 

having sudden shocks as the one of the girl being pregnant. But apart from unmarried 

couples the use of condoms is also being spread to those marriages which have decided 

not to have babies or even to those which want to get some kind of control over the 

number of babies they have, as for example in cases of large families.


         The last argument in favour of condoms is that they can even be used by couples 

which either the man or the woman is infected of AIDS and doesn't want to pass on the 

disease to the other person. This idea is very good seem by most of the people who 

argue that infected as well as not infected people has the right to practice sex if he or she 

desires to, and also  for many people <Q> <R> 


         All of these arguments supporting its use seen reasonable mostly the first one, 

since being proved the efficacy of condoms preventing STDs as AIDS is a good method 

to stop the spreading of these diseases. The other two arguments also look good because 

condoms are a good way to control the number of babies and they are also good as a 

means  to have sex with an infected person without being you infected. 


         As well as opinions that support the use of condoms we also can find arguments 

that are totally against its use, such as the opinion of most of the catholic, priests and so 

on. In order to support their statements they claim that the use of condoms represent an 

immoral behaviour what is supported in the 1968 Encyclical HumanaeVitae by Pope VI 

in which it is written that no condoms, no abortion, no contraceptives. Never. <Q> <R>  Also there 

are cardinals, such  as the Mexican Cardinal Javier Lozano Barragán who <Q> <R>  and even the Cardinal Alfonso Lopez Trujillo who claimed that <Q> <R> . All these catholic preachers argue that the only possible solution is chastity, 

faithfulness and abstinence.  


         Apart from catholic's opinion,  there are people not necessarily religious who are against the use of condoms. Their arguments are many: first of all they think that condoms reduce the pleasure of having sex , secondly they say that condoms are not reliable and they consider its quality as being poor. <Q> <R> . Thirdly many 
people have fears because they believe that condoms can get lost in the woman's womb, and finally there are people who rejects condoms since they do not see any kind of benefit  in using them.


These arguments expressed by a high part of the catholic community appear to be 
reasonable but at the same time unreasonable. It can be considered reasonable since sex is considered a sin and the church is against all kinds of sin. But on the other hands people think that these arguments are not reasonable because it is supposed that priest and so on promote the life of the person and in many countries where condoms are not  used it means being near death.  

         
         As we have seen so far, there are opinions for as well as against the use of condoms, but we also can find people that have a neutral or a mid vision about its use. As previously mentioned most of the religious people are against the use of condoms but not all of them because for example Cardinal Cormac Murphy -O'Connor , head of the church in England And Wales, said of condom use that <Q> <R>  Apart from Cormac another catholic leader the archbishop of Glasgow, Mario Conti said that condoms can be used <Q> <R> 

As well as the opinions of these two British bishops there is one more who is 
Bishop Kevin Dowling, of Rustenburg , South Africa who claims that <Q> <R> This happen mostly in those African countries asfor example Uganda or Angola where every year a lot of people are infected or die due to AIDS. Because of this he states that the use of condoms would have to be necessary in order to control HIV infection worldwide and also to stop the number of people that every year die due to AIDS. The opinions of these religious people look well formed although they are opposite to a very high part of the Christian community arguing that the use of condoms in those poor countries would have to be allowed only to establish  some type of control over AIDS. 

So, in conclusion as it was expressed in the introduction, this issue of using or not condoms provokes many reactions. The strongest opinion for the supporting of this product is that is scientifically  tested that condoms prevent STDs because they act as a barrier between penis and vagina . About the opinions rejecting its promotion or use a 

high part of the religious community has argued that its use is immoral and condoms 

encourage promiscuity. As balance points many people say that the use of  condoms 

would have to be supported or allowed only in those cases of large families where 

parents want to get some control over the number of sons without being operated of 

vasectomy or tubal ligation.    

