
Nowadays the fashion industry, the nutritious lack of balance causing anorexia, bulimia and other medical problems, and the forever questioned importance on image, appear on the newspaper headlines quite often. There are several reasons to believe that the fashion industry holds some dangerous risks and temptations that are difficult to manage at some age. In this essay I will intend to argue that, under my point of view, catwalks are not a recommended place for an underage to carry out their career, and this issue is beginning to become usual currently, as we can understand by the words of a worker from Ford Models called Richard Willmot <Q> <R> 

In my opinion one of the reasons why these young models ought not to work in catwalks until they are at least eighteen years old is a matter of maturity, a matter of being able by means of judgement to be capable of choosing what is correct for their own health and psychological development. The establishment of the age limit at eighteen years old is because in the majority of Occidental Countries this is the age in which an individual acquires full legal capacity. Of course this age limit could be lasted to twenty one depending on the country. I have used this limit in order to balance the capability of choosing with the legal capacity to undertake responsibilities and duties.  
Parisian 28 year old model called Christina Nagy, <Q> <R> . I believe that, this statement on their younger age as a problem is certainly correct. It is not only a personal opinion but also a Government worry; our Spanish Government for example keeps addressing the Drug Campaigns towards teenagers because at that age is very difficult to say no to substance abuse when everybody around you does use them. Possibly, according to Christina Nagy's words, and many other professional older models, substance abuse is an every day issue in catwalks backstages. As we may find several headlines and documentary films on the issue. As well as other many interviews on the internet made to older models. They use cocaine as an appetite suppressant, as Kirsty Milne points, <R>  or as a Top British Model Lucy Clarkson says <R> <Q> . When you spent more then eight ours a day working, surrounded by cocaine consumers and you are fifteen or sixteen years old, you have been told it works taking away your hungriness and keeping your strength up, it is difficult to resist temptation. 

Some may discuss that the drug danger is also present in the streets, in the discotheques, or in any other place teenagers frequently meet. However I would argue that these teenagers are fewer hours exposed to temptation and the social vision of drug abuse being positive in any case can only be shown to them through his or her friends eyes. Their parents, or even teachers, will always explain and inform them about their dangers. A young model that for example stays away from home for over a week may has a higher risk to use drugs then a teenager during only a weekend in which he or she would go back home to sleep. It could be said that this way teenagers are more controlled by their parents and other people who care about them. 

Another problem regarding underage modelling is the loss of time for personal and school life. It would be no problem for them to work, as it appears to me, if they had a legal conscious guardian, better even, if their parents accompanied them on their works, and at the same time they would not miss their education at school as the Italian Labour Law says, they should have a health certificate, they should attend to school and always be accompanied. But we may find cases in where the world of fashion and a view of a possible future successful career may fascinate some teenagers and these will leave their studies aside, and all the other parts of life, to follow this fascination. Juliet Fowler, a British young model seems to be already fascinating by this world: <Q> <R>  . It is a definitely a stressful job, leaving no time for anything else, this means no self-development at the appropriate age. Another model that lives in Paris has a clear opinion about underage models situation: <Q>  <R> .In this same article a student of business psychology states: <Q> <R>  This is another significant point of view to bear in mind; if an underage model starts working let us suppose at fourteen years old, and we take an average career life on four years, it would mean this model will be unemployed and without any education at eighteen years old. Those four years are crucial for a person to achieve a basis on education good enough to be able to follow up her or his studies on one way or another, in order to find a job which will be his or her live support for the upcoming years. As I have already mentioned this difficulty has been more or less been sold out in Italy, by the Labour Law, but Italy is a country where Fashion Business is traditional and a source of big incomes. Many other countries where this business is not as notable have not applied any similar law, or any measure. 
In addition there is another topic that is well known by everyone regarding Fashion Business. During the last decade many newspaper headlines, television debates and other media have been warning about the influence of the model's small sizes and small weight. This influence is thought to have caused some teenagers all over the world to start questioning themselves about their size, or weight. Of course this influenced is more pronounced in the case of teenage runway models, taking in account they are also very young (like other teenagers suffering anorexia or other disorders), and they are demanded to maintain a size and a weight. The British Culture Secretary warns about this issue: <Q> <R> . Petra Nemcova, a model, speaks about past diets: <Q> <R> . And as her there are many other models who have talked about this image pressure, and its consequences, there are even books on the matter of models surviving to anorexia like the one written by the Spanish model Nieves Álvarez. If a girl working as a model cannot judge properly or at least understand the consequences of taking drugs, it is equally negative for them to eat less, or nearly nothing. These attitudes will have consequences throughout their whole life, and as younger they are the worse these consequences can be. Luckily some Governments, like ours for example, have started to ban some models on their runways that do not match the World Health Organization Body Mass Index which is 18,5 (under this BMI the World Health Organization believes it is underweight) <R> . Some people may argue that there are many girls, from every age, that are naturally that thin. We have two examples in Spain, Paola Dominguín, and Bimba Bosé (both from the same family, and certainly with same gens). But the aesthetic canon nowadays for models demands a size which is not usually natural (as the W.H.O. have stated, above). Too high and too thin to be healthy. Without a parent or a guardian paying attention to the diet of an underage model this is a great risk to be taken. 
Fortunately the world of fashion is beginning to change due to the great influence is having in the whole world. But considering the three risks I believe can be more harmful to underage models it could be a good new step to take to ban underage models to work on the fashion business at least in runways, unless as I have mentioned they are the whole time accompanied, they pass health exams, their diet is being always watched over, and they are able to attend to their classes and have some spare time to spend with their friends. If these warranties were covered, or the ban proposed, cases like the one of an Slovenian fifteen year old model Maja would not happen <Q> <R> .




