      Nowadays, the use and consumption of alcohol among young people has became an important aspect of our present society. Adolescents tend to drink more often than in previous decades and at earlier ages, provoking the concern of their parents and of the society on the whole. The reasons why they resort to this practice is very diverse, as well as the consequences and effects of it. An example of this drinking culture is the so called "botellón". This activity, consisting of drinking in the streets, despite being prohibited by the Spanish Government, is still carried out by hundreds of young people along the country. In this essay I am going to consider the main points concerning the issue of the consumption of alcoholic drinks among youngters and I will also show my opinion about it.
      There are many reasons why young people find attractive the idea of consuming alcoholic drinks. According to the web page Wired for Health, some of the motives why youngsters start drinking are <Q> <R> . In other cases, the abuse of this substance is due to <Q> <R> . Taking these information into account it seems that the situations that can lead young people to drink are numerous and of different nature. 
      I think that the main reason why adolescents drink, and in higher amounts as time goes by, is because, somehow, they need to feel older than what they really are, as if they had to show that they are not children anymore. Besides, they see the alcohol as something that makes them more uninhibited and that provides them the opportunity to have new experiences. I am not against the fact that people drink but I believe that it is unacceptable that children of 12-13 years old use drinking in order to have fun. They should be enjoying their childhood by doing things proper of their age. 
      A common activity among youngsters, derived from this drinking culture, is the 'botellón'. This practice is defined as a <Q> <R> . This is something that happens mostly in Spain and that, due to the seriousness of the situation, the Government had to take measures to ban it. This measure was the creation of the 'anti-botellón law'. This prohibition comes from the complaints of neighbours who claim that the noises, destructions and dirtiness that the 'botellón' causes is unbearable. The aim of the Government was not only to avoid these kind of circumstances but also to regulate the consumption of alcohol. The opinion of young people about this prohibition is clear, they are opposed to this illegalization. 
      From my point of view, this law, created some years ago, has been completely uneffective and useless. The proof is that 'botellón' keep on happening in spite of being illegal. I believe that this public drinking is the result of the elevated prices of drinks in bars, pubs and discos. Most of the people who practice 'botellón' are students with either little or no incomes at all, and therefore they cannot afford spending huge amounts of money every time they go out. This is why I am completely in favour of it. However, I understand the position of those who suffer the negative consequences of 'botellón'. There is no need to dirty the streets and to annoy the neighbours with loud music and screams, but the truth is that it happens, and so the impossibility of reaching an agreement favourable to all the parts.
      Another important aspect to mention in relation to this issue is the consequences and effects of drinking. According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, these are some of the numerous aspects affected by the abuse of alcoholic drinks, <Q> <R> . Being more precise, <Q> <R> . In relation to this information it seems logical to argue that alcohol in adolescents only bring negative effects and that is why <Q> <R> .
      It is clear from my point of view that youngsters are really well informed about the consequences of alcohol, so it is not a question of lack of information. They know what happens if they misuse this type of substance, however, and as I said before, it is something that makes them appear more mature and that gives them the chance to live new things. Besides, I think that alcohol is only the starting point of the abuse of other substances; with this I am referring to the fact that if they are able to consume alcohol at very early ages, there will be a moment in which alcohol will not be enough for them and they might feel the need of trying other types of drugs.
      Finally, I would like to discuss some posible solutions to this problem. Here are some of the ideas promoted in the National Academy of Sciences Report on Underage Drinking of United States: <Q> . All these strategies carried out by this organization <Q> <R> .
      I think that all the efforts dedicated to prevent the underage drinking have to be taken into account and in particular, the measures above mentioned are, in my opinion, a valid ones. Besides, and as another solution to the problem, lectures could be given in schools in order to sensitize youth and to inform them about the negative effects of alcohol. The role of the parents is important as well. They should be communicative and open minded and talk to their children about the subject of drinking, without being to prohibitive, since I think the more a person prohibit you to do something, the more you want to do it.
      In conclusion, along this essay I have dealt with some of the most important aspects concerning the issue of alcohol and young people. I have talked about the most frequent reasons why youngters decide to drink, about a common practice in the spanish society which is the 'botellón' and about the consequences and effect of alcohol among young people. Besides, I have provided my personal opinion about all the information presented in order to give another perspective to the writing.

