
      In modern times, the issue of sex education in schools is catching the attention of more and more people every time since it is becoming an important aspect related to the formation of young people. During the last couple of decades the fact of teaching values concerning sexuality, intimacy and relationships has provoked a wide range of opinions about whether is necessary for students to receive this kind of education or not. In those educative centres where this kind of formation is given, the methodology is put into question. Talking about a particular case, it is important to say that the United States is the country where this issue has raised more debate, more than in any other country of the world. In this essay I am going to consider the different points of view regarding this controversial topic which is sex education in schools.
      There are many arguments in favour of teaching sexual education in schools, both public and private. The strongest one seems to be the one defended by experts such as doctors, gynaecologists, sex theraphists and other health professionals who claim that a valuable formation in the human sexual behaviour is necessary in order to inform youth and to prevent future problems. <Q> <R> . But the prevention, though an important issue, is not the only point in favour. <Q> <R> . 
      Because of this promotion of values, it appears logical the fact that sex education is taught in schools. <Q> <R> .
      Apart from these health professionals and in relation to other groups of society such as teenagers, parents and teachers, the general view about this topic is that the majority of them are in favour of it. According to the Siecus Report, <Q> <R> . In this same report, students manifested their desire to know more about the emotional consequences of being sexually active, what to do in cases of rape or assault and how to talk with your partner about birth control, what shows their interest and concern about this issue. However, among all those who believe that sexual education is necessary for children and adolescents, the methodology of these classes together with what age is the appropiate to start receiving them have raised controversy. 
      About this last thing, some people could say that the adolescence is the period in which it should be taught, but to others the earlier you teach it to children the better. <Q> <R> . The main reason why people think that sex education should not be taught at early ages is because it can provoke in them desires for experimenting it. <Q> <R> .
      In contrast with all this, we find a clear opposition in those conservative catholics who see in this sexual education a threat to the traditional values. As they see it, this teaching is nothing more than an incitement to experiment the sexual life to early ages. According to a catholic blog called Radio Cristiandad and as a response to a new law created in South America in relation to the teaching of sexual education <Q> . They go even further by saying that <Q> <R> . This position, though respectable, does not seem very convincing as it is only supported by a tiny minority of the population; besides, people could say about this that is quite extremist since they not only say that sex education is wrong and it undermines the traditional values of society but also that it is something that could lead youngters to a life of licentiousness.
      Finally, it is important not to forget that in relation to this issue not everything is for or against. We can find a mid position integrated by all those people who think that sexual information for kids is necessary but the only appoach that they should receive is the Abstinence-Only-Until-Marriage program. As its own name indicates, this approach to sexuality teach children to postpone their first sexual relationship until they are married. Whilst in countries of Europe this program is barely taught (here we could include religious educative centres), in United States is the most common practice and the one supported by the actual Government. There is a clear disagreement between the opinion of the Government and the opinion of population. <Q> <R> . However, and despite the opposition of a considerable part of the population, this kind of programs are present in most of the americans high schools. In addition, and according to the Siecus public policy office fact sheet, <Q> <R> . This abstinence program is supported by the 15% of Americans. About this people could argue that this way of thinking can result a bit old-fashioned according to the time we are living in but it is an opinion as many others and it should be respected.
      In conclusion, in this essay I have tried to discuss in a balanced way the different points of view concerning the sexual education in schools. In favour of it we have the opinions of doctors and other health professionals who demand this type of formation for youngters in order to prevent unwanted pregnancies and STD's as well as for teaching them values like self-esteem and respect. In this group we also find a considerable number of parents, teachers and students. In opposition there is the most conservative wing of the catholics who see in sex education a threat to traditional values of our society. In a mid position we find those who see the necessity of teaching sex education to adolescents but with the abstinence-only-until marriage approach. 


