These days, gender crimes have become one of the main problems of our present society. With "gender crimes" I refer to women being killed by their husbands or partners and to those who, without reaching the point of death, have to suffer from beatings, rapes, stalking and verbal aggressions among many other ill-treatments every day. Every year, statistics demonstrate an increasing number of deaths and therefore a deterioration of the situation. In this essay I intend to show my opinion against the violence to women and I will provide some solutions to this serious problem that, according to my own view, affects to all citizens.
It seems to me that the origin of this problem can be found in the discrimination that women have been suffering throughout history. For centuries, the role of women has been the maintenance of the house and the care of children. They were subordinated to the man, who was the responsible for earning money and taking decisions, in other words, he was the head of the family. Now, the situation has changed. Women have reached certain level of independence facing men, though it still exists the fight for the achievement of a complete equality (legal, labour and social equality). I think that, in a way, women are still discriminated in society. The proof is that, in some places, women are worse paid than men by doing the same job, women still suffer from sexual harassment and in underdeveloped countries women are treated as mere figurative elements, this is the case of muslim women in Arab countries. The evidences of discrimination are innumerables. Another proof is, of course, the issue we are dealing with, the gender violence. <Q> <R> . Despite the fact of being living in a modern society, violence against women keep on happening. Gender violence doesn't understand of race, religion or social status. It affects to all kind of women all over the world; educated and non-educated, rich and poor, from developed to underdeveloped countries <Q>  <R> .

The types of abuse a woman can suffer at the hands of her partner or ex-partner can be very diverse. According to the US Department of Health and Human Services <R>, the most common ways of abuse are the dating violence, domestic violence, emotional and verbal abuse, human trafficking, sexual assault and stalking. For my part, I believe that all these methods used by aggressors to intimidate, humiliate and control a person are completely unacceptable. The abuse mustn't be justified under any circumstance. Many people could argue that domestic violence is something that must be solved at home, without others interfering in the couple's business, but the truth is that it's a problem that affect to all of us. The role of society is crucial in order to get to a solution to the problem. It's also important the role of the Government. I strongly believe that women victims of gender violence are defenceless facing the justice, in spite of the laws and measures that have been created. The slowness of the judicial processes and the unefectiveness of the sentences dictated by law courts make this problem difficult to solve. Apart from this, there is also the fear of women to denounce their partners. I think that the fact of not denouncing is due to the fear they have to possible reprisals and also due to the belief that their partners can change. Personally speaking, I think that it's not easy to these people (aggressors) to change.Nevertheless, if someone is willing to change, the first step is to recognise you have a problem. According to the New York City Department of Health and mental Hygiene, <Q> <R> . Despite all this, the change is not very common among domestic abusers, the proof is that deaths are still taking place, and in higher numbers every time.

Women are not only beated, but also stalked, which I already said is another way of abuse. As the Montana Coalition against Domestic and Sexual Violence points out <R> , stalking is a pattern of repeated, unwanted attention, harassment and contact. Stalking includes repeated intrusive and frightening communications from the perpetrator by phone, mail and/or e-mail; damaging the victim's property; sending the victim unwanted gifts and making direct or indirect threats to harm the victim and the victim's children, relatives or friends. I really think that this practice should be illegal because the continuous harassment to a person can provoke serious nervous problems. In my opinion it's an obsessive behaviour that can result in the psysical aggression to the woman and therefore legal actions should be taken. This legal actions won't stop stalkers to do the things they do but it can be the beginning of strongers measures against these horrible practices.

Women aren't the only affected in domestic violence. In some cases, children can also be witnesses and even be involved in these abuses. <Q> <R> . It's really important for the developing of children to grow up in a secure environment; if this doesn't happen, problems in the child can appear (traumas, for instance). In my opinion, children should be away from these kind of situations, after all, they are not guilty of anything and they have nothing to do with the issue. However, this involvement in domestic abuses happen, why? I think that abusers use children in order to threat the mother, it's the easiest way to do it as for a mother her son or/and daughter is the most important thing in the world. Besides, if a man is able to batter his wife, why don't do the same with the children? One way of helping children victims of domestic violence is to give them the chance to talk about it. <Q> <R> . In my opinion, by talking about their experiences, children can get more secure and can be able to avercome this traumatic situation. 

Finally, I would like to talk about some possible solutions to this problem. For my part, I consider extremely important the action of the Government. It's true that nowadays the problem of gender violence is becoming more and more known in our society and that new laws concerning this issue are being created, but stronger mesures are needed to the overcoming or, at least, to the improvement of the situation. It could very effective the creation of special jurisdictions dedicated exclusively to the subject of battering. With this, cases would go faster and victims wouldn't have to wait a long time in order to put an end to their sufferings. Moreover, penalties to those who are found guilty should be harder and, of course, those penalties must be served entirely. Not only the legal attention to victims is important, the psychological and social help is also necessary. There are many organizations dedicated to the help and consulting of victims of gender violence, however, I believe that if those centres received more economic investment from the Government, their results and their level of success would be higher. In relation to the social aspect, the sensitizing and arousal of the society is a way to become aware of the seriousness of this problem. This can be done through lectures in schools and universities, conferences, propaganda and so on. 

To sum up, it's clear from my point of view that gender violence is a serious and real problem affecting to societies all over the world that must finish as soon as possible since lots of women die day after day at the hands of cruel men; husbands, partners and/or ex-partners that, hidden behind an obsessive behaviour and protected by soft laws that need to be restructured, act without impunity against their women and even children, provoking psychological disorders, injuries of every type and death. 


