
	Violence is a serious  problem in our society. We can see aggressive behaviour everywhere, among collegues, friends, families, neighbours, classmates....But in my opinion the worst kind of violence is the one se find among children because they are our future and they are supposed to be innocent. We  see everyday on tv or read on newspapers about bullying in schools or children who take weapons to class( not in Spain but so frequently in the USA). Actually last October 26th in telecinco news (Spanish tv channel) we could hear that the 23% of children are bullied during their time at school. Even teachers are victims of students violence how we could checked last October 30th in Antena 3 news (Spanish tv channel) when a student hit a teacher just because he took the student's cigarettes who was smoking in the hall of the school. In this essay I am going to argue about violence in classrooms, why it is growing at such a fast rate, possible solutions and punishment to it.

	There are different kinds of violence. The most common one is children who bully their classmates. Bullying is very common all around the world, in fact, according to a new study four out of five primary school students say that they act like bullies at least once a month. Usually weaker children and those who are different from the rest become the target bullies. These children go to school with fear. They do not want to go outside during breaks or they wait with panic the time of leaving school to go home because they are afraid of their classmates. I believe this kind of violence could be avoided just by providing schools with more security so that they could keep an eye on children during breads and also when they leave school to go home. However, some people may think that this solution would be too expensive for schools and that it can be intimidating for weaker children too but, from my point of view it would be better than being humiliated everyday by their stronger classmates and in the long run they would feel safer.

	Another problem is children who bring weapons to schools. This is not common in Spain but it is in the USA and some parts of Latin America. In 1999, two teenagers opened fire on classmates and teachers in their suburban Denver school killing 15 people including themselves. Although this is the most important case we have other  cases like Columbine High School in Littliton and Colorado. In my opinion the first question is why they have access to weapons at that age, and second, how they can bring them to school. I know getting weapons in USA is too easy because is legal there. A possible solution could be to control the shops that sell weapons and who they well them to. Some people might argue that this is very difficult to control because many of kids do not get weapons in these shops, they buy them in the black market, but in many  cases the police know about the black market and they just do not anything about it (corrupted policemen). Laws are very strict about black market and people who "play" with kind of business are supposed to be in prison but laws are very slow. Even though at the end these people will get what they deserve because of being guilty of many killed children. However another place where kids can find weapons is in their own houses, they steal them from their parents, in my opinion the only solution to this is that parent, be very careful to leave weapons where children have no access to them. About the second question, how children ca bring weapons to school, in my opinion this should be easy to control. There should be metal detectors in all schools. Some people might think that this measure is a bit extreme and that it would be intimidating for the children and expensive for schools, but from my point of view it would be far better than reading on newspapers about the percentage of killed or injured kids by their classmates at school is increasing day by day. By the way children have the ability to adapt themselves to almost everything and in a few weeks they would get used to detectors.

	Making a reference to the kind o punishment that bullies receive we can observe  for example the case of Jokin Ceberio who was bullied for seven young  classmates until he decided to suicide because of  desperation. These  seven teenager were sent to a educative institution for two years and now they have been liberated under supervision of the authorities because they have had a very good behaviour. Of course, the family or Jokin Cebeiro disagree of this decision. From my point of view, these seven teenagers made a boy to suicide because of their bullying. For my are not enough two years in a educative centre, it should have been a harder punishment and moreover, they have not completed this sentence. My sincere opinion is that this kink of punishment don't make children to be conscious of how dangerous is what they do bullying to weaker children. I know that they are teenagers and they are too young to think about consequences on nothing but  I think that they are old enough to make a difference between what is bad and what is good and  with this kind of punishment I am not sure they perceive how serious is what they do.  

	In addition to all this information we should ask ourselves shy violence in schools in increasing more and more during the last few years. I personally believe that parents and teachers play an important role in children education. I think that, in general, children are forbidden nothing, they usually get all they want and have it to easy. They have too much freedom and the lack of discipline shows in their behaviour. This could be solved if teachers and parents worked together, parents could get together with their children's teacher and learn from them what aspects for their children is education should be improved. Some people might argue that with the hectic lives that we lead nowadays parents just do not have the time to meet teachers and that when they get home after a hard day of work they prefer to give their children whatever they want so that they will leave them in peace, however, I am sure that most parents would be willing to make the effort if they understood what a difference that would make in their children's life. Sometimes it is difficult for parents to see that they need help or maybe they just can not afford it, but in most schools they can get counselling for free. Not asking for help results in children and parents having more problems in the future. There are many frustrated teachers who simply do not know how to deal with problematic pupils. A possible solution to this problem could be to separate problematic children from the rest of the class and put them together in a class with a teacher properly trained to deal with them. Some people think that this is not a good solution because it only makes things worse for them but the truth is that it can help the other children getting the education they deserve.

	In conclusion I have explained why violence in classrooms is increasing more and more, I have enumerated and give opinion about the punishments that children receive when they act like bullies and even kill or injury their classmates and I have given possible solutions to the problem. I am firmly convinced that it is going to get even worse in the near future,  but as  long as the government does not take it seriously and start controlling weapons in schools, until parents o not realise that they need help and that they have to do something about it and until teachers do not get a proper training to deal with problematic children nothing much is going to change. Let's just hope that it changes because these children are the future.....










